Jalen Hurts won’t attend Eagles’ White House meeting with Trump – NBC10 Philadelphia Skip to content Main Navigation Search Search for: Weather Local Sports NBC10 Responds Entertainment Investigators Videos Newsletters Watch 24/7 Create profile / Log in Dashboard Email preferences Sign out Trending Submit a News Tip Eagles 🏈 Find It on 10 Philadelphia Phillies ⚾ The Death of Pope Francis Real ID Guide Immigration Battleground Politics The Trump Administration Stream NBC10 24/7 📲 Expand Philadelphia Eagles Complete coverage of the Philadelphia Eagles and their NFL rivals from NBC Sports Philadelphia. Philadelphia Eagles Jalen Hurts skips Eagles' meeting with President Trump at the White House Super Bowl MVP Jalen Hurts won't attend the Philadelphia Eagles' meeting with President Trump at the White House on Monday, NBC News confirmed. By David Chang • Published April 28, 2025 • Updated on April 28, 2025 at 5:06 pm BOOKMARKER NBC Universal, Inc. Jalen Hurts did not attend the Philadelphia Eagles’ meeting with President Donald Trump at the White House Monday afternoon. NBC News White House correspondent Yamiche Alcindor first broke the news on X. The White House said Hurts and other Eagles players -- who were not named -- would not attend due to “scheduling conflicts,” according to Alcindor. Stream Philadelphia News for free, 24/7, wherever you are with NBC10. WATCH HERE In addition to Hurts, A.J. Brown, DeVonta Smith, and some members of the Eagles defense also did not attend the ceremony, according to NBC Sports Philadelphia's John Clark. While attending a Time Magazine event celebrating his inclusion in the 2025 TIME100 list earlier this month, Hurts was asked if he would attend the team’s White House visit. Hurts dodged the question, however. Get top local Philly stories delivered to you every morning with NBC Philadelphia's News Headlines newsletter. SIGN UP "Umm," Hurts replied. Several seconds of silence followed before the reporter said, "Got it, thank you," and Hurts walked away. Meanwhile, Hurts’ superstar teammate Saquon Barkley drew criticism after meeting with Trump at his golf course in Bedminster, New Jersey, and then flying back with the president to Washington, D.C. on Sunday, ahead of the team's White House visit. Barkley responded to the criticism on his X account Monday morning. Philadelphia Eagles Complete coverage of the Philadelphia Eagles and their NFL rivals from NBC Sports Philadelphia. 2025 NFL Draft 17 hours ago 10 leftover Eagles nuggets from the 2025 NFL Draft Philadelphia Eagles Apr 28 Which Eagles players did not attend the White House ceremony? Last month, the Eagles “enthusiastically accepted” an invitation to the White House, an official confirmed with NBC10 . That news came amid rumors that the Eagles were going to turn down an offer, which had not been offered at the time. A source told NBC Sports Philadelphia that was not the case, however, and that the Eagles planned to go to the White House if President Trump invited them. The team did not visit the White House after winning its first Super Bowl in franchise history in 2018. The White House rescinded the invitation the night before the scheduled June 2018 visit after what then-White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders called a “political stunt” by the Eagles. Instead of going to Washington, D.C., that day, the Eagles stayed in South Philadelphia and added an OTA practice. This article tagged under: Philadelphia Eagles Eagles on now NBC10 News @ 4PM Trending Stories Philadelphia Eagles Which Eagles players did not attend the White House ceremony? Cumberland County Air bags deploy as driver crashes stolen car, brings down tree along NJ road Philadelphia 3 hurt in South Philly shooting on Tuesday night Philadelphia Arrest made after man's body found with gunshot wounds in Schuylkill River Delaware UD student killed, 8 hurt after overdue U-Haul flees police, crashes near campus Weather Forecast Facebook Instagram About NBC10 Philadelphia Our News Standards Share a News Tip or Feedback Share a Tip for the NBC10 Investigators Newsletters Connect With Us About the Comcast Center Campus NBC Sports Philadelphia Xfinity: Internet, TV, streaming, more WCAU Public Inspection File WCAU Accessibility WCAU Employment Information Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices FCC Applications Terms of Service Advertise with us Send Feedback CA Notice Ad Choices Copyright © 2025 NBCUniversal Media, LLC. All rights reserved Close Menu Create profile / Log in Dashboard Search for: Newsletters Local U.S. and World Politics Weather Weather Alerts School Closings See It, Share It Sports Phillies Eagles Sixers Flyers NBC Sports Philadelphia Investigators NBC10 Responds Submit a tip Watch The Lineup Philly Live Entertainment About NBC10 Philadelphia Our News Standards Share a News Tip or Feedback Share a Consumer Complaint Share Photos and Video Watch Live TV Community NBC Sports Philadelphia TV Schedule Our Apps Newsletters Contests Cozi TV Follow Us Facebook Instagram Contact Us