When does The Last of Us season 2 take place? | GamesRadar+ Skip to main content Games Radar Newsarama Total Film Edge Retro Gamer SFX Open menu Close menu Total Film The smarter take on movies Search Search GamesRadar+ Sign in View Profile Sign out Subscribe US Edition UK US Canada Australia News Reviews Subscribe Podcast Newsletter More PS5 Xbox Series X Nintendo Switch Nintendo Switch 2 PC Platforms Tabletop Gaming Comics Toys & Collectibles SFX Newsarama Retro Gamer Newsletters About us Features No offers found Trending Best Netflix Movies Best movies on Disney Plus Movie Release Dates Best Netflix Shows Entertainment TV Drama Shows The Last of Us TV show When does The Last of Us season 2 take place? Features By Megan Garside published 14 April 2025 Here's when exactly The Last of Us season 2 takes place as opposed to the games Comments ( 0 ) ( ) When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works . (Image credit: HBO) After an excruciating two whole years of waiting, one of the best shows on Max , The Last of Us, has finally returned to our screens. But, with Ellie now obviously a little older and Joel somewhat settled down in Jackson, you may be wondering just how much time has passed from HBO’s The Last of Us season 1 and when exactly The Last of Us season 2 takes place. Even if you are a big fan of Naughty Dog’s The Last of Us games, which serve as inspiration to the series, you still may be confused over the timeline. This is because time differs from video game to the show. The series' current timeline is also not set in our own present time. But don’t worry, that’s where we come in. Below, we have compiled everything you need to know about when The Last of Us season 2 is set, including how old certain characters are now. Warning, mild spoilers for The Last of Us season 2 episode 1 follow , so make sure you are up to date. But first, read our The Last of Us season 2 review . You may like The Last of Us season 2 release date, cast, plot, trailer, and more news The Last of Us season 2 release schedule: When does episode 4 premiere on Max? The Last of Us season 2, episode 1: The biggest changes between the HBO show and the PlayStation game When is The Last of Us season 2 set? (Image credit: HBO) Before we think about when exactly The Last of Us season 2 is set, we first need to rewind to season 1. The Last of Us season 1 episode 1 starts with a snippet of a show broadcast in 1968, showing epidemiologists discussing the potential of a global pandemic. Then, the episode jumps to 2003 when a strange fungal virus did in fact break out, causing people to turn into zombie-like creatures. We see Joel try and save his family from the zombies, known as Clickers, but his daughter doesn't make it. The season then jumps forward 20 years to what is present time in the show, 2023, where Joel and Ellie finally meet. The rest of the season seems to take place between summer 2023 and spring 2024, judging by the weather and certain annual holidays. In this respect, the first season stayed kind of true to our own timeline, as the bulk of the show took place in 2023, which is the same year it was released in real time. Now comes the slightly confusing part. Although only two years have passed in our real time, The Last of Us season 2 jumps forward over 5 years after season 1 ended. The start of season 2 sees Ellie and co celebrating New Year's Eve 2029. The reason for this time jump is not to account for the cast getting older, which is unsurprising as they don't look that much older at all. But it is so the show stays as true to the games as possible, as The Last of Us parts 1 and 2 also includes a huge time jump between them. How is The Last of Us TV show’s timeline different from the games? (Image credit: Naughty Dog) Speaking of the games, although the show tries its best to stay true to the timeline of both The Last of Us Part I and The Last of Us Part II , it is worth noting that the games do follow a slightly different timeline. The first game, which hit shelves in 2013, takes place between the years of 2033 and 2034, and Part II picks up in spring 2038 and continues into 2039. In the games, Ellie is 14 in the first game, and by the time the second game rolls around, she is 19. As for Joel, when we first meet him, he is 51, and the next time we see him in Part II, he is 56. Sign up for the Total Film Newsletter Bringing all the latest movie news, features, and reviews to your inbox Contact me with news and offers from other Future brands Receive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsors By submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over. However, we already know that season 2 will not cover all of the second game, so we expect The Last of Us season 3, which has just been confirmed , to take place during the back end of The Last of Us Part II. So, why does the TV show follow a different timeline from the games? It is not clear exactly why the show didn’t start in 2033 like the first game. But our best guess is that the team wanted us as an audience to be able to connect with the story more, so they set the bulk of season 1 in our own present time. The Last of Us season 2 episode 1 is out now, with new episodes dropping weekly – see our The Last of Us season 2 release schedule for exact timings. For more, see our list of the best new video game adaptations , or keep up with other upcoming TV shows . See more TV Shows Features CATEGORIES HBO Streaming Services Megan Garside Social Links Navigation Editorial Associate, GamesRadar+ I am an Entertainment Writer here at GamesRadar+, covering TV and film for SFX and Total Film online. I have a Bachelors Degree in Media Production and Journalism and a Masters in Fashion Journalism from UAL. In the past I have written for local UK and US newspaper outlets such as the Portland Tribune and York Mix and worked in communications, before focusing on film and entertainment writing. I am a HUGE horror fan and in 2022 I created my very own single issue feminist horror magazine. You must confirm your public display name before commenting Please logout and then login again, you will then be prompted to enter your display name. Logout Read more The Last of Us season 2 release date, cast, plot, trailer, and more news The Last of Us season 2 release schedule: When does episode 4 premiere on Max? The Last of Us season 2, episode 1: The biggest changes between the HBO show and the PlayStation game The Last of Us season 2, episode 3: The biggest changes between the HBO show and the PlayStation game The Last of Us season 2, episode 2: The biggest changes between the HBO show and the PlayStation game The Last of Us season 2 trailer brings the heart and the horror back to Joel and Ellie Latest in Drama Shows Neil Druckmann says The Last of Us season 2's divisive episode 3 does something they "couldn't do" in the game after Joel's death: "The mourning period is relatively short" Netflix confirms Agatha All Along star's hit series won't be getting a season 4, but surprises fans with a welcome twist The Walking Dead boss is confident that the zombie franchise could run for another 15 years: "As long as we have terrific characters, it can go on and on" The Last of Us season 2 episode 1's big game change is proving very divisive with fans: "That was the whole point" Death haunts Ellie and Joel in new horror-themed The Last of Us season 2 trailer featuring Seraphites, a new look at Isaac, and another Bloater Kaitlyn Dever's Abby isn't muscular in The Last of Us season 2 because it wasn't "essential" for the show's story: "There is no gameplay, there is merely observation" Latest in Features 70 years after the Martian Manhunter's debut, the Justice League mainstay has been reinvented in the Absolute DC Universe's most daring and compelling series yet I've spent 20 hours playing Oblivion Remastered as an evil tourist, and may have accidentally found the best way to play Bethesda's liveliest RPG Forza Horizon 5 landing on PS5 means I'm replaying one of the greatest racing games of all time, and this is the best it's been in 4 years 10 Games like Clair Obscur: Expedition 33 that helped influence its timing focused turn-based battles I love Blue Prince for one simple reason: it's the closest thing we'll get to a House of Leaves game After 8 hours of being hunted by a murderous unicorn in Oblivion Remastered, I'm torn between "we're so back" and "please save me" GAME REVIEWS MOVIE REVIEWS TV REVIEWS 1 Many Nights a Whisper review: "With one chance to land a single, perfect shot – few games have this tension and impact" 2 Skin Deep review: "A genuinely stellar immersive sim, replete with chaos" 3 Clair Obscur: Expedition 33 review: "An old-school feeling JRPG as dynamic as Persona but with parry-filled battles as hard-won as Sekiro" 4 Lost Records: Bloom and Rage – Tape 2 review: "Don't Nod's new coming-of-age series ends with teen defiance and queer rage" 5 Arydia: The Paths We Dare Tread review -  "Manages to give everyone something D&D can't match" 1 Thunderbolts review: "Makes good on the promise of a new start for the MCU" 2 A Minecraft Movie Review: "Jack Black's irrepressible star turn helps elevate this video game adaptation" 3 The Electric State review: "Although this may be their most visually stunning movie yet, it looks like the Russos are yet to find their footing outside of the MCU" 4 Fight or Flight review: "Slick and silly action sequences garner well-earned John Wick and Bullet train comparisons" 5 Mickey 17 Review: "Bong Joon Ho's best English movie to date and arguably Robert Pattinson's best movie ever" 1 Doctor Who season 2, episode 3 spoiler review: 'The Well' is a "ruthlessly gripping" installment that challenges Belinda 2 Andor season 2 review: "Every bit as stellar as its predecessor – at times, it even surpasses it" 3 Doctor Who season 2, episode 2 spoiler-free review: 'Lux' is a "bold, bonkers" second episode with an amazing villain 4 Doctor Who season 2, episode 1 spoiler-free review: "'The Robot Revolution' is an impressive first episode for new companion Belinda Chandra" 5 The Last of Us season 2 review: "Brilliant and visceral but fails to capture the magic of season 1" GamesRadar+ is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site . About Us Contact Future's experts Terms and conditions Privacy policy Cookies policy Advertise with us Review guidelines Write for us Accessibility Statement Careers © Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street, New York, NY 10036. Close Please login or signup to comment Please wait... Login Sign Up