Gian-Carlo Coppola - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Early life 2 Career 3 Death 4 Posthumous 5 Selected filmography 6 References 7 External links Toggle the table of contents Gian-Carlo Coppola 14 languages Afrikaans العربية تۆرکجه Čeština Deutsch فارسی Français 한국어 Italiano Kreyòl ayisyen مصرى 日本語 Polski తెలుగు Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia American film producer and actor (1963–1986) Gian-Carlo Coppola Born ( 1963-09-17 ) September 17, 1963 Los Angeles, California, U.S. Died May 26, 1986 (1986-05-26) (aged 22) Annapolis, Maryland , U.S. Occupations Film producer actor Partner Jacqui de la Fontaine (engaged) Children Gia Coppola Parent(s) Francis Ford Coppola Eleanor Neil Family Coppola family Gian-Carlo Coppola (September 17, 1963 – May 26, 1986) was an American film producer and actor. A scion of the Coppola family associated with the film industry, he was the oldest child of Eleanor and Francis Ford Coppola , and elder brother to Roman and Sofia Coppola . Early life [ edit ] Coppola was born in Los Angeles, California, to set decorator/artist Eleanor Coppola (née Neil) and film director Francis Ford Coppola . As the eldest Coppola sibling, he was the older brother to Roman and Sofia . Career [ edit ] Coppola began his professional film-making career at the age of sixteen, working closely with his father. Like his brother and sister, Coppola—known to his family and friends as Gio—often featured in his father's movies as background characters ( The Godfather , The Conversation , Apocalypse Now Redux and Rumble Fish ), later acting as associate producer for Rumble Fish and The Outsiders , and second unit director on The Cotton Club . In The Godfather , he appeared with his brother Roman as the two sons of Robert Duvall 's Tom Hagen character, and they can be seen during the street fight and Vito Corleone 's funeral right behind Duvall and Al Pacino . During the pre-production phase of Gardens of Stone , Coppola was given the responsibility of filming the rehearsals and supervising the electronic cinema staff. There was also potential for Coppola to intern with director Steven Spielberg to work on the television series Amazing Stories before his death. Director Penny Marshall had also hired him to work on the second unit for her feature film Jumpin' Jack Flash . Death [ edit ] Coppola was killed in a speedboating incident on Memorial Day , 1986, aged 22, in Annapolis, Maryland . [ 1 ] Griffin O'Neal , who was piloting the boat, had attempted to pass between two slow-moving boats, unaware that the boats were connected by a towline. While O'Neal barely had time to duck, Coppola was struck and killed. [ 2 ] Before the incident, O'Neal was being directed by Francis Ford Coppola in Gardens of Stone and was subsequently replaced. O'Neal was later charged with manslaughter . He ultimately pleaded guilty to the lesser charge of "negligent operation of a boat", was fined $200 and sentenced to 18 months' probation in 1987. [ 3 ] He eventually received an 18-day jail sentence for not performing 400 hours of community service as ordered. [ citation needed ] Posthumous [ edit ] At the time of Coppola's death, his fiancée Jacqui de la Fontaine was two months pregnant with their only daughter, Gian-Carla "Gia" Coppola (born January 1, 1987). Gia Coppola became a writer-director ( Palo Alto , 2013). Francis Ford Coppola subsequently dedicated 1988's Tucker: The Man and His Dream to his son. A scene in Francis Ford Coppola's 2011 film Twixt shows the death of a character as being similar to his son's death. Eleanor Coppola's touring art installation, Circle of Memory , commemorates the life of her son, and has been exhibited in San Diego, Oakland, Santa Fe, Montpellier, Salzburg, Stockholm, and Oslo. Selected filmography [ edit ] The Godfather (1972) – Baptism Observer (uncredited) The Conversation (1974) – Boy in Church (uncredited) Apocalypse Now (1979) – Gilles de Marais (Redux version only) The Outsiders (1983) - Associate producer Rumble Fish (1983) – Cousin James; associate producer (final film role) The Cotton Club (1984) - Second unit director (final film) Apocalypse Now Redux (2001) - Gilles de Marais (posthumous release; archival footage) References [ edit ] ^ Harris, Lyle V. (May 28, 1986). "Boat Cable Kills Director's Son" . The Washington Post . Retrieved July 15, 2019 . ^ Tatum O'Neal, A Paper Life , 0-060-75102-9 p. 158 ^ "Griffin O'Neal Fined $200 in Boat Death of Coppola's Son" . Los Angeles Times . Annapolis. Associated Press. February 27, 1987 . Retrieved July 15, 2019 . External links [ edit ] Gian-Carlo Coppola at IMDb v t e Coppola family 1st generation Carmine Coppola Anton Coppola Italia Coppola 2nd generation August Coppola Francis Ford Coppola Talia Shire Eleanor Coppola Jack Schwartzman 3rd generation Nicolas Cage Jason Schwartzman Robert Coppola Schwartzman Sofia Coppola Roman Coppola Gian-Carlo Coppola Marc Coppola Christopher Coppola 4th generation Gia Coppola See also Palazzo Margherita (Bernalda) John Schwartzman Authority control databases : Artists MusicBrainz Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Gian-Carlo_Coppola&oldid=1268251006 " Categories : 1964 births 1986 deaths Accidental deaths in Maryland American male film actors Coppola family Male actors from Los Angeles 20th-century American male actors Boating accident deaths People of Campanian descent People of Lucanian descent Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Use mdy dates from July 2019 Pages using infobox person with multiple parents Articles with hCards All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from April 2024 This page was last edited on 8 January 2025, at 21:40 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents Gian-Carlo Coppola 14 languages Add topic