'Grey's Anatomy' Season 17 to premiere Nov. 12 - UPI.com Top News U.S. News World News Featured Odd News Entertainment Movies Music TV Science Health Sports NFL MLB NBA Soccer Voices Photos News US News World News Entertainment Sports Archive Almanac Trending Disney employee On This Day Sanctuary cities Famous birthdays Vancouver attack Margarita snake 'Thunderbolts* Eye-popping Colon cancers TV Sept. 18, 2020 / 12:15 PM 'Grey's Anatomy' Season 17 to premiere Nov. 12 By Annie Martin Sometimes...we all need saving. #GreysAnatomy returns Thursday, November 12 on ABC! pic.twitter.com/QWkD3mv9BT — Greys Anatomy (@GreysABC) September 18, 2020 Sept. 18 (UPI) -- Grey's Anatomy will return for a 17th season in November. ABC announced a premiere date, Nov. 12, for Season 17 in a press release Thursday. The two-hour season premiere will air Nov. 12 at 9 p.m. EDT. Season 4 of the Grey's Anatomy spinoff Station 19 will premiere the same night at 8 p.m. ABC shared a moving poster for Grey's Anatomy Season 17 on Twitter featuring Ellen Pompeo as her character. Dr. Meredith Grey. "Sometimes... we all need saving," the tagline reads. The network also released a teaser for the season featuring Dr. Teddy Altman ( Kim Raver ) and Dr. Owen Hunt (Kevin McKidd). Get ready. #GreysAnatomy pic.twitter.com/H0dBqimpmH — Greys Anatomy (@GreysABC) September 18, 2020 ABC also announced premiere dates for other fall shows. The Good Doctor Season 4 premieres Nov. 2 at 10 p.m. EDT, while David E. Kelley 's new series Big Sky will make its debut Nov. 17 at 10:01 p.m. "Our fall schedule is now complete with a dynamic lineup of new and returning drama series," ABC Entertainment president Karey Burke said. "From fan-favorite shows like Grey's Anatomy and The Good Doctor to David E. Kelley's thrilling new drama Big Sky , our strength is in our storytelling, and we could not be more energized to bring these compelling series to our viewers." Read More Emmy Awards 2020: How to watch, what to expect Hulu: What's coming and going in October 2020 David Byrne 'thrilled' with Spike Lee's filmed version of 'American Utopia' What to watch next: Sign up for UPI's Streaming newsletter Topics David E. Kelley Ellen Pompeo Kim Raver Karey Burke Latest Headlines TV // 2 hours ago '1883,' 'Tombstone' alum Sam Elliott joins 'Landman' Season 2 April 29 (UPI) -- "1883" and "Tombstone" alum Sam Elliott has joined the cast of Paramount+'s "Landman" Season 2. TV // 5 hours ago 'Dexter: Resurrection' to have two-episode premiere July 11 April 29 (UPI) -- Showtime announced the first two episodes of "Dexter: Resurrection," the "Dexter" sequel series starring Michael C. Hall, will drop on Paramount+ with Showtime two days before premiering on the cable network. TV // 5 hours ago Nicole Kidman returns in 'Nine Perfect Strangers' Season 2 trailer April 29 (UPI) -- Hulu released a trailer for the upcoming second season of "Nine Perfect Strangers," featuring returning star Nicole Kidman and a new ensemble cast. TV // 16 hours ago 'St. Denis' cast says doctors, nurses praise comedy's accuracy LOS ANGELES, April 29 (UPI) -- Wendi McLendon-Covey, David Alan Grier, Allison Tolman, Kahyun Kim and co-creator Eric Ledgin said real health care workers have told them their comedy "St. Denis Medical," airing Tuesdays on NBC, gets hospitals right. TV // 1 day ago Red Dragons undergo 'baptism of fire' in 'Welcome to Wrexham' Season 4 trailer April 28 (UPI) -- FX is previewing Season 4 of "Welcome to Wrexham," which arrives May 15. The docuseries features actors Ryan Reynolds and Rob McElhenney. TV // 1 day ago 'Netflix Tudum' event to feature 'Wednesday,' 'One Piece' April 28 (UPI) -- Netflix is teasing its live fan event, "Netflix Tudum 2025: The Live Event," which takes place May 31 at Kia Forum in Los Angeles. TV // 2 days ago 'RuPaul's Drag Race' alum Jiggly Caliente dead at 44 April 27 (UPI) -- "Rupaul's Drag Race" and "Pose" alum Bianca Castro-Arabejo -- who performed under the name of Jiggly Caliente -- has died at the age of 44. TV // 2 days ago Mike Rowe's 'Returning the Favor' followup to premiere on YouTube Friday April 27 (UPI) -- Television personality, podcaster and best-selling author Mike Rowe has announced plans for a new series called "People You Should Know," which is set to premiere on YouTube Friday. TV // 3 days ago Jeanine Mason: Heroine Eva faces serious challenges in 'WondLa' S2 NEW YORK, April 26 (UPI) -- Jeanine Mason told UPI Eva, the character she plays in "WondLa," finally gets what she has always wanted -- an introduction to other beings like herself in a futuristic world inhabited by aliens and robots -- in S2. TV // 3 days ago Prime Video orders two more seasons of 'Hazbin Hotel' spinoff 'Helluva Boss' April 26 (UPI) -- Prime Video has announced it acquired the first two seasons of "Helluva Boss" and ordered two new seasons of the animated series. Trending Stories Movie review: 'Thunderbolts*' ineffectively retreads 'Avengers' movies A new generation of magicians rise in 'Now You See Me: Now You Don't' trailer Famous birthdays for April 26: Melania Trump, Joan Chen Famous birthdays for April 29: Andre Agassi, Master P Patricia Heaton says late Linda Lavin inspired her 'Unbreakable Boy' mom performance Follow Us Back to top About UPI Contact Corrections Advertisements Copyright © 2025 United Press International, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Terms of Use Privacy Policy