Facebook is buying WhatsApp for $16 billion | The Verge Skip to main content The homepage The Verge The Verge logo. The Verge The Verge logo. Tech Reviews Science Entertainment AI More Expand The homepage The Verge The Verge logo. Menu Expand Navigation Drawer The Verge The Verge logo. Login / Sign Up close Close Search Tech Expand All Tech Amazon Apple Facebook Google Microsoft Samsung Business Creators Mobile Policy Security Transportation Reviews Expand All Reviews Buying Guides Deals Gift Guide Laptops Phones Headphones Tablets Smart Home Smartwatches Speakers Drones Science Expand All Science Space Energy Environment Health COVID-19 Entertainment Expand All Entertainment Games TV Shows Movies Audio AI Cars Expand All Cars Electric Cars Autonomous Cars Ride-Sharing Scooters Other Transportation Features Videos Expand All Videos YouTube TikTok Instagram Podcasts Expand All Podcasts Decoder The Vergecast Newsletters Expand All Newsletters Command Line Installer Notepad Verge Deals Store Subscribe Facebook Threads Instagram Youtube RSS The Verge The Verge logo. Facebook is buying WhatsApp for $16 billion Comments Drawer Tech / Apps Facebook is buying WhatsApp for $16 billion WhatsApp’s employees will take home $3 billion in stock over four years WhatsApp’s employees will take home $3 billion in stock over four years by Chris Welch Source Facebook Feb 19, 2014, 10:09 PM UTC Link Facebook Threads whatsapp (stock 1020) Chris Welch is a senior reviewer who has worked at The Verge since its founding in 2011. His coverage areas include audio (Sonos, Apple, Bose, Sony, etc.), home theater, smartphones, photography, and more. Facebook has entered into an agreement to purchase WhatsApp, the massively popular messaging client, for $16 billion in cash and stock. A document filed with the SEC today confirms the huge purchase. As was the case with Instagram, the company says WhatsApp will continue to operate independently after the acquisition — separate from Facebook Messenger — but claims the deal “accelerates Facebook’s ability to bring connectivity and utility to the world.” Facebook is also throwing in an extra $3 billion in restricted stock units that will go to WhatsApp’s employees; those will vest over a period of four years after the acquisition is finalized. More than 450 million monthly users In a press release announcing the monumental buyout, CEO Mark Zuckerberg said, “WhatsApp is on a path to connect 1 billion people. The services that reach that milestone are all incredibly valuable.” He also shared news of the deal on his personal Facebook page , saying, “WhatsApp will complement our existing chat and messaging services to provide new tools for our community.” Over 450 million people use WhatsApp each month, according to statistics in the press release, with 70 percent of those users active on a given day. WhatsApp co-founder and CEO Jan Koum will join Facebook’s board of directors as part of the deal, but his team will remain stationed in Mountain View, California. "Doing this will give WhatsApp the flexibility to grow and expand, while giving me, Brian, and the rest of our team more time to focus on building a communications service that’s as fast, affordable and personal as possible," he said in a blog post . According to Koum, users don't need to worry about ads "interrupting your communication." "There would have been no partnership between our two companies if we had to compromise on the core principles that will always define our company, our vision and our product," he said. Update: In a call with investors following the deal, Zuckerberg said he proposed the purchase to Koum on Sunday, February 9th, with the two agreeing on a price a few days later. Zuckerberg also went into more detail on why Facebook will hang on to its existing chat services, which he views as something people use to send one another messages asynchronously instead of in real-time. “We think that those are two different use cases, and that the world needed both,” he said. Analysts also asked Koum and Zuckerberg whether the deal meant that ads were coming to WhatsApp. Koum responded to by saying the two companies were more focused on growing how many people were using the app over how money will be made off it. See More : Apps Tech More in this stream See all WhatsApp now has 500 million active users Chris Welch Apr 22, 2014 Comments Comment Icon Bubble WhatsApp founder says privacy concerns after Facebook buyout are ‘unfounded’ Kwame Opam Mar 17, 2014 Comments Comment Icon Bubble How Mark Zuckerberg wooed WhatsApp Vlad Savov Mar 5, 2014 Comments Comment Icon Bubble Most Popular Most Popular Amazon has no choice but to display tariffs on prices now Duolingo will replace contract workers with AI New Starlink subscription drops hardware price to $0 The DJI Phantom is no more Slate Auto confirms where it’ll build its $20,000 Truck Installer A weekly newsletter by David Pierce designed to tell you everything you need to download, watch, read, listen to, and explore that fits in The Verge’s universe. Email (required) Sign Up By submitting your email, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Notice . This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad More in Apps Snapchat scraps ‘simple’ redesign as it loses users in North America Google’s AI podcast maker is now available in over 50 languages Duolingo will replace contract workers with AI WhatsApp is working on video and voice calls on the web Google Play Games might be headed to the graveyard Star Wars is so back Snapchat scraps ‘simple’ redesign as it loses users in North America Emma Roth Apr 29 Comments Comment Icon Bubble Google’s AI podcast maker is now available in over 50 languages Emma Roth Apr 29 Comments Comment Icon Bubble Duolingo will replace contract workers with AI Jay Peters Apr 28 Comments Comment Icon Bubble WhatsApp is working on video and voice calls on the web Umar Shakir Apr 28 Comments Comment Icon Bubble Google Play Games might be headed to the graveyard Umar Shakir Apr 28 Comments Comment Icon Bubble Star Wars is so back David Pierce Apr 27 Comments Comment Icon Bubble Advertiser Content From This is the title for the native ad Top Stories Apr 29 Whatever happened to the Kids Online Safety Act? Apr 29 MAGA’s next wave of influencers saved TikTok Apr 29 Amazon has no choice but to display tariffs on prices now Apr 29 Slate Auto confirms where it’ll build its $20,000 Truck Apr 29 Starlink’s got company — and orbital overcrowding is a disaster waiting to happen Apr 29 Meta’s ChatGPT competitor shows how your friends use AI The Verge The Verge logo. Facebook Threads Instagram Youtube RSS Contact Tip Us Community Guidelines About Ethics Statement How We Rate and Review Products Cookie Settings Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status © 2025 Vox Media , LLC. All Rights Reserved