Defending champion Shane Lowry 'disappointed' over British Open cancellation - The Statesman All Sections Home India World Business Sports Entertainment Opinion Law Lifestyle Dainik Statesman More Technology Exclusive Interviews Features Photo Videos Cities Travel Education Law Epaper Bhubaneswar Delhi Kolkata Siliguri Dainik Statesman Home India World Business Sports Entertainment Opinion Law Lifestyle Dainik Statesman More Technology Exclusive Interviews Features Photo Videos Cities Travel Education Law Epaper Bhubaneswar Delhi Kolkata Siliguri Dainik Statesman Home India World Business Sports Entertainment Opinion Law Lifestyle Dainik Statesman More Technology Exclusive Interviews Features Photo Videos Cities Travel Education Law Epaper Bhubaneswar Delhi Kolkata Siliguri Dainik Statesman Search # Sports Defending champion Shane Lowry ‘disappointed’ over British Open cancellation As the whole world is under lockdown due to the COVID-19  scare, Lowry had on Sunday said that he misses playing golf. SNS | New Delhi | April 7, 2020 2:04 pm In this file photo taken on July 21, 2019 Ireland's Shane Lowry poses with the Claret Jug, the trophy for the Champion golfer of the year after winning the British Open golf Championships at Royal Portrush golf club in Northern Ireland - The British Open has been cancelled for the first time since World War II due to the coronavirus, tournament organisers announced on April 6, 2020. (Photo by Glyn KIRK / AFP) Responding to the postponement of golf’s oldest tournament that is the British Open, Irish golfer Shane Lowry expressed his disappointment. Amid the ongoing coronavirus crisis, a new and reconfigured 2020 golf schedule has been announced by the world’s golf organisations which features the cancellation of the British Open for the first time since 1945. Advertisement “Obviously im disappointed that I won’t get to defend the Open championship this year but I feel the RandA have made the right decisions based on people’s health and safety. See you all in Royal St George’s in 2021 (sic),” the Irish tweeted. Advertisement Obviously im disappointed that I won’t get to defend the Open championship this year but I feel the RandA have made the right decisions based on people’s health and safety. See you all in Royal St George’s in 2021 pic.twitter.com/zr7uS80lgH — Shane Lowry (@ShaneLowryGolf) April 6, 2020 As the whole world is under lockdown due to the coronavirus scare, Lowry had on Sunday said that he misses playing golf. “I’d never thought I’d miss Golf as much as I do, I knew id miss competing but I even just miss the peace and tranquillity of an evening 9 holes with friends. Fingers crossed this is all over soon. #staysafe #StayAtHome,” the golfer had tweeted. I’d never thought I’d miss Golf as much as I do, I knew id miss competing but I even just miss the peace and tranquillity of an evening 9 holes with friends. Fingers crossed this is all over soon. #staysafe #StayAtHome — Shane Lowry (@ShaneLowryGolf) April 5, 2020 Advertisement British Open COVID 19 Shane Lowry Related posts # India Kerala ambulance driver gets life imprisonment for rape of 19-year-old COVID patient The Pathanamthitta Principal Sessions Court on Friday sentenced a man to life imprisonment for sexually assaulting a 19-year-old COVID-19 patient while she was being transported to a first-line treatment centre in 2020. # Technology Covid-induced immunity-debt behind global rise in flu cases: Study A team of UK researchers has found evidence on how "immunity debt," caused by extended periods of restrictions during Covid-19 pandemic, is causing changes in global transmission patterns of flu. # India CAG Report Unmasks Jharkhand’s Healthcare Crisis, Fund Mismanagement Sparks Political Uproar The latest report by the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) has exposed alarming irregularities in Jharkhand’s healthcare sector, triggering sharp political reactions. You might be interested in Congress holds candle-light march in honour of Pahalgam terror victims SC admonishes Rahul for his Savarkar comments, stays summons by a Uttar Pradesh court Post Pahalgam attack, Arshad’s presence at NC Classic completely out of question: Neeraj Advertisement thestatesman.com PEOPLE'S PARLIAMENT, ALWAYS IN SESSION Address The Statesman Net Private Limited Statesman House, First Floor 148 Barakhamba Road New Delhi – 110001 (+91) (011) 41605781, 41605958 Follow us: News India World Technology Business Sports Lifestyle Lifestyle Health Fashion Entertainment Entertainment Bollywood Hollywood Bengali Cinema Southern Cinema © 2025, thestatesman.com | All rights reserved Advertise with us About Privacy Policy Contact