NCAA Announces 2020 NBA Draft Withdrawal Date amid COVID-19 Bleacher Report NFL Draft NFL NBA NHL CFB Shop Play Betting B/R Sports on Max 01:04 Featured Video Rockets-Dubs Gets Chippy Again FILE - In this March 18, 2015, file photo, the NCAA logo is at center court as work continues at The Consol Energy Center in Pittsburgh, for the NCAA college basketball second and third round games. Bank records and other expense reports that are part of a federal probe into college basketball list a wide range of impermissible payments from agents to at least two dozen players or their relatives, according to documents obtained by Yahoo Sports. Yahoo said Friday, Feb. 23, 2018, that the documents obtained in discovery during the investigation link current players including Michigan State's Miles Bridges, Duke's Wendell Carter and Alabama's Collin Sexton to potential benefits that would be violations of NCAA rules. (AP Photo/Keith Srakocic, File) Keith Srakocic/Associated Press NBA NCAA Announces 2020 NBA Draft Withdrawal Date amid COVID-19 Adam Wells Jun 5, 2020 Now that the NBA has reportedly set a date for its 2020 draft, the NCAA has issued a new deadline for prospects to withdraw from the event if they want to retain their college eligibility. The Division I Men's Basketball Oversight Committee announced Aug. 3 as the deadline for student-athletes to remove their name from the NBA draft. Per ESPN's Adrian Wojnarowski , the NBA will hold this year's draft on Oct. 15. TOP NEWS Giannis Says Actions of Tyrese Haliburton's Dad 'Unacceptable' After Pacers Beat Bucks Bleacher Report -2355s 2025 NBA Mock Draft with Lottery Simulation Sending Cooper Flagg to Eastern Conference Bleacher Report 18h Spurs' Stephon Castle Wins 2024-25 NBA Rookie of the Year over Risacher, Wells Bleacher Report 2h The original date for the 2020 NBA draft was June 25, with the withdrawal deadline on June 3. The NBA said on May 1 that the draft lottery (May 19) and draft combine (May 19-24) had been postponed because of the coronavirus pandemic. After that announcement, the NCAA indefinitely extended the deadline for student-athletes to withdraw from the draft until the NBA made a final determination. A makeup date for the scouting combine has yet to be announced, but Wojnarowski reported the lottery will take place on Aug. 25. In a normal year, student-athletes would have 10 days after the combine to withdraw from the draft if they wanted to return maintain college eligibility. Based on the updated NBA calendar, the draft could take place three days from the end of the 2019-20 season if the NBA Finals goes to seven games. 01:04 Rockets-Dubs Gets Chippy Again TOP NEWS John Haliburton Apologizes Bleacher Report -2355s Latest Projections and Pro Comps ✍️ Bleacher Report 18h 🚨 Stephon Castle Wins ROY Bleacher Report 2h Pacers Eliminate Bucks in OT Bleacher Report 24m Updated NBA Playoff Bracket Bleacher Report 30m TRENDING ON B/R Bleacher Report • 1d 1 Trade Every NBA Playoff Team Wishes It Could Make Right Now Bleacher Report • 14h Cooper Flagg, Dylan Harper, Full List of Early 2025 NBA Draft Declarations Announced Bleacher Report • 9h Lakers' Luka Doncic Gifts $5K to Restore Vandalized Kobe, Gigi Bryant Mural Dončić donates $5K to repair vandalized tribute of Kobe and Gigi (KTLA) Bleacher Report • 12h Michael Porter Jr. Not Suspended for Leaving Bench During Nuggets-Clippers Skirmish Michael Porter Jr. not suspended Game 5 for leaving bench during skirmish Bleacher Report • 3h Jalen Brunson, Knicks Fail to Close out Cade, Pistons in G5 Loss, Disappoint NBA Fans New York loses Game 5 at MSG, still ahead 3-2 in series 📲 TRENDING ON B/R Bleacher Report • 1d 1 Trade Every NBA Playoff Team Wishes It Could Make Right Now Bleacher Report • 14h Cooper Flagg, Dylan Harper, Full List of Early 2025 NBA Draft Declarations Announced Bleacher Report • 9h Lakers' Luka Doncic Gifts $5K to Restore Vandalized Kobe, Gigi Bryant Mural Dončić donates $5K to repair vandalized tribute of Kobe and Gigi (KTLA) Bleacher Report • 12h Michael Porter Jr. Not Suspended for Leaving Bench During Nuggets-Clippers Skirmish Michael Porter Jr. not suspended Game 5 for leaving bench during skirmish Bleacher Report • 3h Jalen Brunson, Knicks Fail to Close out Cade, Pistons in G5 Loss, Disappoint NBA Fans New York loses Game 5 at MSG, still ahead 3-2 in series 📲 Bleacher Report About Advertise Contact Us Get Help Careers Sitemap Community Guidelines Privacy Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Terms Of Use AdChoices B/R Sports on MAX B/R Creators Program Copyright © 2025 Bleacher Report, Inc. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved.