Oscars 2021: the big winners of the 93rd Academy Awards | The Week The Week US Edition US UK SUBSCRIBE & SAVE Less than $3 per week × Search Sign in View Profile Sign out The Explainer Talking Points The Week Recommends Newsletters Cartoons From the Magazine The Week Junior More Politics World News Business Health Science Food & Drink Travel Culture History Personal Finance Puzzles Photos The Blend All Categories Newsletter sign up Newsletter Home Culture & Life Film Features Oscars 2021: the big winners of the 93rd Academy Awards Nine of the 20 acting nominations were awarded to people of colour at this historic but ‘sleepy’ ceremony Newsletter sign up Newsletter Nomadland director Chloé Zhao (Image credit: Chris Pizzello/Pool/Getty Images) By Kate Samuelson last updated 26 April 2021 History was made during the early hours of this morning when Chloé Zhao became the first woman of colour and the first woman of Asian descent to be crowned best director at the Oscars . Zhao is only the second woman ever to be named best director after Kathryn Bigelow for The Hurt Locker more than a decade ago. Zhao’s Nomadland , which stars Frances McDormand as a widow on a road trip through the American west, won three Oscars in total. As critics had predicted , McDormand was crowned best actress for the third time. Only the late Katharine Hepburn won more Oscars, four, in this category. Academy Award winners Yuh-Jung Youn, Daniel Kaluuya and Frances McDormand (Image credit: Chris Pizzello-Pool/Getty Images) In other firsts, Mia Neal and Jamika Wilson became the first black women to win the best hair and make-up awards for their work on Ma Rainey’s Black Bottom . “I know that one day it won’t be unusual or groundbreaking,” Neal said about her win. “It will just be normal.” The Netflix film, which centres around a recording session in 1920s Chicago , also won in the best costume design category. Subscribe to The Week Escape your echo chamber. Get the facts behind the news, plus analysis from multiple perspectives. SUBSCRIBE & SAVE Sign up for The Week's Free Newsletters From our morning news briefing to a weekly Good News Newsletter, get the best of The Week delivered directly to your inbox. From our morning news briefing to a weekly Good News Newsletter, get the best of The Week delivered directly to your inbox. Sign up 2021 films of the year: Herself, The Lost Leonardo, Our Ladies and more Oscars under fire as top nominations branded ‘too white and male’ Five reasons why Parasite won at the Oscars Other notable winners included Daniel Kaluuya as best supporting actor for his role as the Black Panther leader Fred Hampton in Judas and the Black Messiah and Emerald Fennell for best original screenplay for her dark revenge comedy Promising Young Woman . Fennell became the first female filmmaker to win a screenwriting Oscar since Diablo Cody for Juno in 2008. Breaking with tradition, the ceremony concluded with the prize for best actor, rather than best picture. Many had expected a posthumous win for Chadwick Boseman, who starred in Ma Rainey’s Black Bottom alongside Viola Davis. However, 83-year-old Anthony Hopkins took home the gong for The Father , becoming the oldest actor - male or female - to win an Oscar. “I did not expect to get this award, I really didn’t,” he said from Wales . “I want to pay tribute to Chadwick Boseman who was taken from us far too early.” The show’s producers had “obviously” hoped “to finish on a heartfelt tribute to Boseman after a rushed In Memoriam segment”, writes Helen O’Hara on the i news site. This meant that “the ceremony finished not with an emotional bang but a whimper of dissatisfaction” and “overshadowed both Hopkins’ extraordinary performance and Boseman’s loss”. Sign up for Today's Best Articles in your inbox A free daily email with the biggest news stories of the day – and the best features from TheWeek.com Contact me with news and offers from other Future brands Receive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsors By submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over. Hopkins’s “historic second win” felt more like an “awkward postscript to the night” rather than a moment to celebrate, agrees Robbie Collin in The Telegraph . “A Hollywood ending it was not”. The event was “sleepy” until its “dramatic twist ending” when Hopkins beat out runaway favourite Boseman, says The New York Times . But despite the snooze-factor of the ceremony, the 93rd Academy Awards “amounted to a celebration of diversity” with nine of the 20 acting nominations awarded to people of colour. Women also took home 16 awards, a record 35.6% of the total number of winners. 93rd Academy Awards: the full list of winners Best picture: Nomadland Best actor: Sir Anthony Hopkins ( The Father ) Best supporting actor: Daniel Kaluuya ( Judas And The Black Messiah ) Best actress: Frances McDormand ( Nomadland ) Best supporting actress: Yuh-Jung Youn ( Minari ) Best director: Chloe Zhao ( Nomadland ) Best animated feature film: Soul Best cinematography: Erik Messerschmidt ( Mank ) Best film editing: Mikkel EG Nielsen ( Sound Of Metal ) Best costume design: Ann Roth ( Ma Rainey's Black Bottom ) Best original score: Trent Reznor, Atticus Ross and Jon Batiste ( Soul ) Best original song: Fight For You ( Judas And The Black Messiah ) Adapted screenplay: The Father - Christopher Hampton and Florian Zeller Original screenplay: Promising Young Woman - Emerald Fennell Best production design: Mank Best make-up and hairstyling: Ma Rainey's Black Bottom Best sound: Sound Of Metal Best live-action short film: Two Distant Strangers Best visual effects: Tenet Best documentary feature: My Octopus Teacher Best international feature: Another Round Best animated short: If Anything Happens I Love You Best documentary short: Colette Explore More Hollywood Oscars Kate Samuelson Social Links Navigation Kate Samuelson is The Week's former newsletter editor. She was also a regular guest on award-winning podcast The Week Unwrapped. Kate's career as a journalist began on the MailOnline graduate training scheme, which involved stints as a reporter at the South West News Service's office in Cambridge and the Liverpool Echo. She moved from MailOnline to Time magazine's satellite office in London, where she covered current affairs and culture for both the print mag and website. Before joining The Week, Kate worked at ActionAid UK, where she led the planning and delivery of all content gathering trips, from Bangladesh to Brazil. She is passionate about women's rights and using her skills as a journalist to highlight underrepresented communities. Alongside her staff roles, Kate has written for various magazines and newspapers including Stylist, Metro.co.uk, The Guardian and the i news site. She is also the founder and editor of Cheapskate London, an award-winning weekly newsletter that curates the best free events with the aim of making the capital more accessible. Latest The papal conclave's 'banned' cardinal Under the Radar Cardinal Giovanni Angelo Becciu fought for right to vote for the next pope, despite being convicted of embezzlement and stripped of privileges By Genevieve Bates Millions mourn as Vatican prepares for transition Feature Pope Francis, the pontiff who challenged tradition, leaves the Catholic Church at a crossroad to choose his successor By The Week US A 'meltdown' at Hegseth's Pentagon Feature The Defense Secretary is fighting to keep his job amid leaked Signal chats and staff turmoil By The Week US You might also like And the Oscar goes to … no one in particular: Movies made with AI can now win awards Under the radar Generative AI is no longer a barrier to acclaim By Devika Rao, The Week US The US-China trade war comes to Hollywood Under the Radar China's retaliatory restrictions on foreign films will hurt the US film industry By Genevieve Bates Hollywood's new affection for the British smile Talking Point Natural teeth are bucking the trend of the classic Hollywood smile By Richard Windsor, The Week UK 5 horror movies to shock you into spring The Week Recommends New frontiers in space horror and a new movie from the 'Talk to Me' creators highlight the upcoming horror season By David Faris Oscars 2025: Anora’s Cinderella triumph Feature The film about a stripper who elopes with the son of a Russian oligarch takes home four Oscars By The Week US Gene Hackman: the prolific actor who brought intensity to diverse roles Feature Hackman was not an easily pigeonholed performer By The Week US Gene Hackman: the death of a Hollywood legend The French Connection actor had an extraordinary gift for making characters believable By The Week UK The best body horror movies of the last half-century The Week Recommends If 'The Substance' piqued your interest, these other films will likely be your speed By Theara Coleman, The Week US View More ▸ TheWeek About Us Contact Future's experts Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Advertise With Us The Week is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site . © Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street, New York, NY 10036.