History Of ChatGPT: A Timeline Of Generative AI Chatbots Skip to content Subscribe Latest All News SEO News PPC News Social Media News Webinars Podcast For Agencies Career Guide Marketing with AI: Agency Growth Kit Drive more conversions for your clients. Get the 2025 Outlook Report + 6 Ways to Boost AI's Impact for Your Clients worksheet. Download The Kit SEO All SEO SEO News SEO Strategy Ask An SEO Enterprise SEO Enterprise SEO Column Google Algorithm Updates International SEO Link Building Local SEO Mobile SEO On-Page SEO Technical SEO Vertical SEO Wordpress for SEO Web Dev for SEO Guide AI Search, SEO, & Content Marketing Trends and Predictions for 2025 Large AI Overviews on SERPs are affecting visibility and causing a dramatic decrease in traffic. Download Now Paid Media All Paid Media Paid Media News Paid Strategy Ask a PPC Expert Display Ads PPC Programmatic Social Media Advertising Video Advertising Guide Marketing with AI: Agency Growth Kit Drive more conversions for your clients. Get the 2025 Outlook Report + 6 Ways to Boost AI's Impact for Your Clients worksheet. Download The Kit Content All Content Content News Content Strategy Content Creation Content Marketing Content Trends Guide Marketing with AI: Agency Growth Kit Drive more conversions for your clients. Get the 2025 Outlook Report + 6 Ways to Boost AI's Impact for Your Clients worksheet. Download The Kit Social All Social Media Social Media News Social Strategy Social Media Advertising Bluesky Facebook Instagram LinkedIn TikTok Twitter YouTube Reddit Rundown PPC Unlocked: Fast Wins For Smarter Ad Strategies Discover quick, high-impact PPC tactics designed to boost ROI without burning out. Download Now Digital All Digital Marketing Digital Strategy Affiliate Marketing Analytics & Data Digital Experience Generative AI Digital Trends Ecommerce Lead Generation WordPress Webinar How To Create & Pitch Content That Attracts Incredible Links Learn how to leverage powerful linkable assets to earn high-quality links that impact search rankings. Walk away with a step-by-step framework to implement now. Reserve Your Seat Library Webinars More Ebooks All Ebooks Beginner's Guide to SEO Core Web Vitals Guide Google E-A-T Guide Link Building Guide Local SEO Guide On-Page SEO Ranking Factors Ebooks2 Wordpress SEO Technical SEO SEO Audit Keyword Research Guide PPC Guide Facebook Ads Guide Content Marketing Guide Resources Library Ebooks Webinars Rundowns SEJ Show + Podcast Google Algorithm Updates SEO Conferences Advertise Advertising on SEJ Case Study: B2B SaaS Banner Ads Company Subscribe About Contact Careers Privacy Policy Do Not Sell My Personal Info Follow Us Google News LinkedIn YouTube Facebook Twitter Bluesky Instagram Reddit Pinterest Mastodon Rss Advertise Do Not Sell My Personal Info Subscribe SEJ ⋅ Generative AI History Of ChatGPT: A Timeline Of The Meteoric Rise Of Generative AI Chatbots Explore the history of ChatGPT with a timeline from launch to reaching over 200 million users, introducing GPT-4o, custom GPTs, and much more. Annabelle Nyst Updated: October 9, 2024 ⋅ 5 min  read Annabelle Nyst Bio Follow 124 SHARES 57K READS At the end of 2022, OpenAI introduced the world to ChatGPT . Since its launch, ChatGPT hasn’t shown significant signs of slowing down in developing new features or maintaining worldwide user interest. Screenshot from Similarweb Pro, June 2023 Continue reading the history of ChatGPT with a timeline of developments, from OpenAI’s earliest papers on generative models to acquiring 200 million weekly active users and 200 plugins. History Of ChatGPT: A Timeline Of Developments June 16, 2016 – OpenAI published research on generative models, trained by collecting a vast amount of data in a specific domain, such as images, sentences, or sounds, and then teaching the model to generate similar data. ( OpenAI ) September 19, 2019 – OpenAI published research on fine-tuning the GPT-2 language model with human preferences and feedback. ( OpenAI ) January 27, 2022 – OpenAI published research on InstructGPT models, siblings of ChatGPT, that show improved instruction-following ability, reduced fabrication of facts, and decreased toxic output. ( OpenAI ) November 30, 2022 – OpenAI introduced ChatGPT using GPT-3.5 as a part of a free research preview. Screenshot from ChatGPT, Dec 2022 February 1, 2023 – OpenAI announced ChatGPT Plus , a premium subscription option for ChatGPT users offering less downtime and access to new features. Screenshot from ChatGPT, February 2023 ChatGPT reached 100 million users faster than TikTok, which made the milestone in nine months, and Instagram, which made it in two and a half years. ( Reuters ) February 7, 2023 – Microsoft announced ChatGPT-powered features were coming to Bing . February 22, 2023 – Microsoft released AI-powered Bing chat for preview on mobile. March 1, 2023 – OpenAI introduced the ChatGPT API for developers to integrate ChatGPT-functionality in their applications. Early adopters included SnapChat’s My AI , Quizlet Q-Chat, Instacart, and Shop by Shopify. March 14, 2023 – OpenAI releases GPT-4 in ChatGPT and Bing, which promises better reliability, creativity, and problem-solving skills. Screenshot from ChatGPT, March 2023 March 14, 2023 – Anthropic launched Claude , its ChatGPT alternative. March 20, 2023 – A major ChatGPT outage affects all users for several hours. March 21, 2023 – Google launched Bard , its ChatGPT alternative. March 23, 2023 – OpenAI began rolling out ChatGPT plugin support , including Browsing and Code Interpreter. March 31, 2023 – Italy banned ChatGPT for collecting personal data and lacking age verification during registration for a system that can produce harmful content. April 23, 2023 – OpenAI released ChatGPT plugins, GPT-3.5 with browsing, and GPT-4 with browsing in ALPHA. Screenshot from ChatGPT, April 2023 April 25, 2023 – OpenAI added new ChatGPT data controls that allow users to choose which conversations OpenAI includes in training data for future GPT models. April 28, 2023 – The Italian Garante released a statement that OpenAI met its demands and that ChatGPT service could resume in Italy . May 15 – 2023 – OpenAI launched the ChatGPT iOS app , allowing users to access GPT-3.5 for free. ChatGPT Plus users can switch between GPT-3.5 and GPT-4. Screenshot from ChatGPT, May 2023 May 16, 2023 – OpenAI CEO Sam Altman appears in a Senate subcommittee hearing on the Oversight of AI , where he discusses the need for AI regulation that doesn’t slow innovation. May 23, 2023 – Microsoft announced that Bing would power ChatGPT web browsing . Screenshot from ChatGPT, May 2023 May 24, 2023 – Pew Research Center released data from a ChatGPT usage survey showing that only 59% of American adults know about ChatGPT, while only 14% have tried it. May 25, 2023 – OpenAI, Inc. launched a program to award ten $100,000 grants to researchers to develop a democratic system for determining AI rules. ( OpenAI ) May 31, 2023 – ChatGPT Plus users can now access over 200 ChatGPT plugins . Screenshot from ChatGPT, May 2023 June 1, 2023 – ChatGPT traffic surpasses competing generative AI chatbots in May. ( Similarweb Pro ) July 20, 2023 – OpenAI introduced custom instructions for ChatGPT, allowing users to personalize their interaction experience. August 28, 2023 – OpenAI launched ChatGPT Enterprise , calling it “the most powerful version of ChatGPT yet.” Benefits included enterprise-level security and unlimited usage of GPT-4. November 6, 2023 – OpenAI announced the arrival of custom GPTs , which enabled users to build their own custom GPT versions using specific skills, knowledge, etc. Jan 10, 2024 – With the launch of the GPT Store , ChatGPT users could discover and use other people’s custom GPTs. On this day, OpenAI also introduced ChatGPT Team , a collaborative tool for the workspace. Jan 25, 2024 – OpenAI released new embedding models : the text-embedding-3-small model, and a larger and more powerful text-embedding-3-large model. April 9, 2024 – OpenAI phased out ChatGPT plugins in favor of custom GPTs. May 13, 2024 – A big day for OpenAI, when the company introduced the GPT-4o model , offering enhanced intelligence and additional features for free users. July 25, 2024 – OpenAI launched SearchGPT , an AI-powered search prototype designed to answer user queries with direct answers. August 29, 2024 – ChatGPT reaches 200 million weekly active users. September 12, 2024 – OpenAI unveiled the GPT o1 model, which it claims “can reason like a human.” The Future Of ChatGPT And Alternative Generative AI Chatbots What does the future of ChatGPT have in store? That depends on many factors, including the following. Will the government decide to regulate AI ? If so, who will handle it, how will they create legislation that matches rapid AI developments , and will regulation affect the innovation of future GPT models? Will OpenAI win lawsuits against generative AI tools, or will the outcome of those cases slow the development of future training models? Will competitors build ChatGPT alternatives , or will government regulation, fear of litigation, and increased API costs stifle innovation? Featured image: Tada Images/Shutterstock Category News Generative AI Read Full Bio Annabelle Nyst Writer, digital marketer, and content strategist. Annabelle has 8+ years of experience in social marketing, copywriting, and storytelling for best-in-class ... Join 75,000+ Digital Leaders. Learn how to connect search, AI, and PPC into one unstoppable strategy. By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept the privacy policy of Search Engine Journal. Suggested Articles From Zero To ChatGPT Hero: How To Harness The Power Of AI In Marketing How To Use ChatGPT To Be More Productive & Creative 9 ChatGPT Alternatives You Can Try In 2025 Join 75,000+ Digital Leaders. Learn how to connect search, AI, and PPC into one unstoppable strategy. By clicking the "Subscribe" button, I agree and accept the privacy policy of Search Engine Journal. Beyond ROAS: Aligning Google Ads With Your True Business Objectives AI Overviews: We Reverse-Engineered Them So You Don't Have To [+ What You Need To Do Next] Advertisement In a world ruled by algorithms, SEJ brings timely, relevant information for SEOs, marketers, and entrepreneurs to optimize and grow their businesses -- and careers. Sections News SEO Paid Media Content Social Media Digital Experience WordPress Topics Link Building Local Search Mobile Search International Search Enterprise SEO PPC Analytics Data Reddit Resources Library E-Books Google Algorithm Updates Rundowns SEJ Show Webinars SEO Conferences Advertise Advertising on SEJ Case Study: B2B SaaS Banner Ads Company Subscribe About Contact Careers Privacy Policy Do Not Sell My Personal Info Copyright © 2025 Search Engine Journal. All rights reserved. Published by Alpha Brand Media.