xenoblade chronicles 2 - Which common blades should I hold on to? - Arqade Skip to main content Stack Exchange Network Stack Exchange network consists of 183 Q&A communities including Stack Overflow , the largest, most trusted online community for developers to learn, share their knowledge, and build their careers. Visit Stack Exchange Loading… Tour Start here for a quick overview of the site Help Center Detailed answers to any questions you might have Meta Discuss the workings and policies of this site About Us Learn more about Stack Overflow the company, and our products current community Arqade help chat Arqade Meta your communities Sign up or log in to customize your list. more stack exchange communities company blog Log in Sign up Home Questions Unanswered Tags Chat Users Teams Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams. Try Teams for free Explore Teams Teams Ask questions, find answers and collaborate at work with Stack Overflow for Teams. Explore Teams Teams Q&A for work Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search. Learn more about Teams Which common blades should I hold on to? Ask Question Asked 7 years, 2 months ago Modified 7 years, 2 months ago Viewed 5k times 2 While bonding with core crystals, I hit the limit for how many blades I can have at once. I need to start releasing Common Blades to make room, but I’m not sure what Blades I should release. Are there any common blades I should hold on to? Which types of blades are ok to get rid of? xenoblade-chronicles-2 Share Improve this question Follow asked Feb 7, 2018 at 1:17 Stevoisiak Stevoisiak 44.5k 57 57 gold badges 192 192 silver badges 456 456 bronze badges Add a comment | 4 Answers 4 Sorted by: Reset to default Highest score (default) Date modified (newest first) Date created (oldest first) 4 In general, you can get rid of whatever you want. However, here are the guidelines I follow for if I should release a blade: Do I have enough of this field skill to pass a check if they randomly come up? If so, release it. My general thought here is that if I have approximately 10 that I can muster across all of my party members, that's good enough. Does it only have one field skill? If so, release it. I don't like single-use blades - more field skills means more utility in merc missions. Is it a 4 star common? Max it, then release it (for an overdrive protocol ). I can safely say that at max merc level, I probably have a hundred blade slots free per driver. Share Improve this answer Follow answered Feb 7, 2018 at 4:28 Seiyria Seiyria 9,862 20 20 gold badges 58 58 silver badges 98 98 bronze badges Add a comment | 0 Without repeating things off of Seiyria's excellent answer, here are two more considerations: High strength (30 then 35+) was the most difficult merc mission requirement for me. Merc level 2 is fairly easy to achieve and very early in the game.  I personally never hit the cap after that, although I had an endless stockpile of common cores I never used. Share Improve this answer Follow answered Feb 8, 2018 at 22:16 Aaron Dietz Aaron Dietz 121 3 3 bronze badges 1 High strength is a byproduct of sending them on more merc missions, so having a maxxed out field skill or two will also imply high(er) strength. – Seiyria Commented Feb 9, 2018 at 1:17 Add a comment | 0 From my gaming experience, The only fields skills that I frequently not have enough are elemental skills. This is because unique Blades rarely have elemental nodes. So I basically only keep blades with (potential) level3 elemental nodes. The only exception to this rule was if the blade have two or more other level 3 fields. Share Improve this answer Follow answered Feb 9, 2018 at 12:26 dna dna 571 2 2 silver badges 8 8 bronze badges 1 Part of this is not true. There are more blades with elemental bonuses than those without. – Seiyria Commented Feb 10, 2018 at 16:25 Add a comment | 0 To add to the already excellent answers; I tend to keep common blades who have the field skills that the uniques don't get; things like Production Mastery, Industry Mastery, Transport Mastery as popping a few of those on a relevant merc mission can really decrease the time needed to complete. Share Improve this answer Follow answered Feb 9, 2018 at 19:43 adaliabooks adaliabooks 1,036 2 2 gold badges 10 10 silver badges 14 14 bronze badges Add a comment | Your Answer Reminder: Answers generated by AI tools must be referenced due to Arqade's artificial intelligence policy Thanks for contributing an answer to Arqade! Please be sure to answer the question . Provide details and share your research! But avoid … Asking for help, clarification, or responding to other answers. Making statements based on opinion; back them up with references or personal experience. To learn more, see our tips on writing great answers . Draft saved Draft discarded Sign up or log in Sign up using Google Sign up using Email and Password Submit Post as a guest Name Email Required, but never shown Post as a guest Name Email Required, but never shown Post Your Answer Discard By clicking “Post Your Answer”, you agree to our terms of service and acknowledge you have read our privacy policy . Start asking to get answers Find the answer to your question by asking. Ask question Explore related questions xenoblade-chronicles-2 See similar questions with these tags. Screenshot of the Week Nothing like finding a star with your exact duplicate in Super Mario Galaxy by Alex Submit your photo Hall of fame Featured on Meta Updates to advertising guidelines Evolving comments: An experiment to encourage engagement and follow-up questions Do we need a fifth custom off-topic close reason? Screenshot of the Week #140 | Submissions Closed, Vote Now! Linked 8 Where can I find Overdrive Protocols? Related 2 What are the special Blades Gramps mentions (and how are they unlocked)? 2 Are there actually Blades with 3 or 4 crowns? 2 Does Tora get more blades? 3 What unique Blades are not available through random drop from generic Cores Crystals? 3 Is there any benefit to using different drivers/blades? 1 How many Blades can I have at once? 4 What does Mumufa mean by "Stinky drivers repel their Blades"? 1 Do field skills stack with multiple blades? 3 How do I tell which items I've bought from a store? 0 Are blades actually weaker in the Spirit Crucible Elpys? Hot Network Questions Reasoning about quest and story deadlocks etc How can I fill a 4 inch gap between carpet and vinyl flooring? Are molecules in a mixture chemically bonded? Is it always valid to use correlation for feature selection? Could OLS miss statistically significant coefficient because it's too small? Why do the infected not attack each other? Multiday hike in UK with children Can we have direct or indirect speech after the verb "lie"? Are these chainrings or cassette cooked? 3 year old road bike In light cone, why is it a cone and not a sphere, given that light travels in all directions in space-time? Is it a projection of slice of 4D sphere? Are FPV drones responsible for 75% of casualties on Russian side in Russia-Ukraine war? Collision probability of reduced density matrix of a Haar random state Unknown DC bias added to AC source Can multiple creatures use a Legendary Action at the end of a single turn? How to connect a guest network to a host network in VirtualBox 7.0? Denying entry to fleabitten service dogs What is this orange button on my antique Black & Decker drill? There are no employees at the store. Why not? What is the drawback of always generating passphrases for the user? Why would the forthcoming papal election still be valid if more than 120 Cardinals vote in it, against Universi Dominici Gregis paragraph 33? How to handle teammates pressuring me (even publicly) to redo my work after I already explained my reasoning? Can a darkmantle willingly detach? Why isn't a misfiled attorney-client memo fair game for use in a trial? Finding a piece of Gemara more hot questions Question feed Subscribe to RSS Question feed To subscribe to this RSS feed, copy and paste this URL into your RSS reader. Arqade Tour Help Chat Contact Feedback Company Stack Overflow Teams Advertising Talent About Press Legal Privacy Policy Terms of Service Your Privacy Choices Cookie Policy Stack Exchange Network Technology Culture & recreation Life & arts Science Professional Business API Data Blog Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram Site design / logo © 2025 Stack Exchange Inc; user contributions licensed under CC BY-SA . rev 2025.4.29.25785