Michael Durbin | Cetera Holdings SIFMA Menu Close Advocacy & Resources About Events For Members Join SIFMA Michael Durbin Chief Executive Officer, Cetera Holdings Mike Durbin is chief executive officer of Cetera Holdings, the holding company of Cetera Financial Group, and a member of Cetera’s board of directors. In his role as CEO, he oversees Cetera’s growth initiatives, from expansion into new and adjacent markets to evolving Cetera’s existing capabilities for the financial professionals and financial institutions it serves. Most recently, Mike was head of Fidelity Institutional, a division of Fidelity Investments offering clearing, custody, investment products, brokerage, and trading services to a wide range of wealth management firms and institutions. In this role, Mike was responsible for supporting the growth of clients’ businesses, enhancing their operational efficiency while delivering insights that help to drive confidence, clarity, and results. Previously, Mike served as head of Fidelity Institutional Investment and Technology Solutions where he focused on the end-to-end delivery of wealth management products and technology solutions for Fidelity clearing and custody clients. Prior to that role, he served as president of Fidelity Wealth Technologies, where he oversaw Fidelity’s acquisition of eMoney Advisor. He joined Fidelity in February 2009 as president of Fidelity Institutional Wealth Services where he was responsible for the oversight and growth of the business by providing clients access to a flexible, open-technology environment, extensive practice management resources and wealth management investments, and related execution and custody services. Prior to joining Fidelity, Mike acted as chief operating officer of the National Sales Division for Morgan Stanley’s Global Wealth Management. During his 18-year tenure with Morgan Stanley, he held various leadership positions, including head of Capital Markets, head of International Private Wealth Management and chief strategic and risk officer for the Global Individual Investor Group. Mike joined the firm in 1990, then titled Dean Witter Reynolds, Inc., in the investment banking field. In his initial roles, he was involved with the origination, structuring, and marketing of packaged investments for private client distribution. Education Leonard N. Stern School of Business at New York University, MBA University of Notre Dame, BBA, Finance and Economics About SIFMA SIFMA is the voice of the U.S. securities industry. We advocate for effective and resilient capital markets. SIFMA is a member of the GFMA Alliance Sifma Essentials Market Practices & Model Documentation Newsroom Research Sources Store Follow Us LinkedIn Instagram Contact Us Manage Profile Sifma Initiatives The Stock Market Game Project:Invested Important Links Terms of Use Privacy Policy Emergency Alerts Get daily news on the capital markets Subscribe Thank you for subscribing! © 2025 Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association Back to top