Maryland Teacher of the Year 2022 Skip to Main Content Maryland State Department of Education Home MSDE Primary Logo Subscribe to Newsletters Employment Opportunities Translate Open navigation Translate Mobile Search Search About Us Strategic Plan The Blueprint Offices / Divisions State Board News Subscribe to Newsletters Employment Opportunities Quick Links Local School Systems Advisory Councils Apply for Child Care Scholarships Public Information Act Requests Apply or Renew Certification National Board Certification Contact Us Search Search Search Notice: JavaScript is not available in your browser. Some enhanced features will not be available until JavaScript is enabled. Partners & Recognition Programs Left_Content Overview Teacher of the Year Blue Ribbon Schools Milken Educator Award Program Teachers of Promise Maryland Teacher of the Year 2022 Main_Content Brianna Chanelle Ross Baltimore County – Deer Park Middle Magnet School, Social Studies, Grade 6 Brianna Ross views teaching as “a revolutionary act of love.” With both a Bachelor of Science degree in Applied Developmental Psychology (2014) and Master of Education degree in Curriculum and Instruction (2015) from the University of Pittsburgh, and a certificate in Administration and Supervision from Loyola University of Maryland (2019), Ross expects her doctorate in Urban Educational Leadership from Morgan State University by 2024. Having taught in both elementary and middle schools, Ross serves as her school’s Equity Liaison and Social Studies Department Chair. She coordinates a Summer Transition Program she launched to help elementary students prepare for and thrive in middle school. Contact: Office of Communications and Community Engagement communications.msde@maryland.gov Center_Content Right_Content In the News Baltimore County Middle School Teacher Brianna Ross Named 2021-2022 Maryland Teacher Of The Year October 7, 2021 Rt_bottom_Content ​ ​Maryland State Department of Education 200 West Baltimore Street, Baltimore, MD 21201-2595 Phone: (410) 767-0100 Deaf and hard of hearing use Relay marylandpublicschools.org Carey M. Wright, Ed.D. State Superintendent of Schools Wes Moore Governor Aruna Miller Lieutenant Governor Resources ARP ESSER State Plan Maryland School Report Card Grant Opportunities State Board Meetings Regulations Employment Opportunities Quick Links Local School Systems Apply for Child Care Scholarships Public Information Act Request Apply or Renew Certification National Board Certification Fraud Reporting Hotline Connect with us! Stay in the loop on upcoming events and learn about MSDE initiatives and programs. © 2025 Maryland State Department of Education Contact Us Privacy Accessibility Terms of Use Non-Discrimination Statement Non-Discrimination in Education Select Language English Amharic Arabic Bengali Chinese (Simplified) Chinese (Traditional) Filipino French Gujarati Haitian Creole Hebrew Hindi Japanese Myanmar (Burmese) Nepali Pashto Persian Polish Portuguese Russian Spanish Turkish Urdu Vietnamese