Nintendo To Nominate Illumination Boss Chris Meledandri To Board Of Directors Toggle navigation Film TV Shorts Awards Tech VFX CG Animation VR/AR/MR Tools Biz Business Box Office Report Artist Rights Studios Cities Bay Area London Los Angeles Montreal New York City Vancouver Paris Toronto Country France Japan Canada UK Spain China Germany Ireland Mexico Charts & Data CALENDAR: 2024 Animated Movies Animation Industry Layoff Tracker Top 50 Most-Viewed Indie Youtube Shorts Search: Film TV Shorts Interviews Business VFX/Tech Artist Rights Box Office Festivals Business Executives Videogames Nintendo To Nominate Illumination Boss Chris Meledandri To Board Of Directors By Alex Dudok de Wit | 05/11/2021 12:14 pm | Be the First to Comment! Share Tweet Email 0 Chris Meledandri is set to strengthen his ties to Nintendo. The Japanese gaming titan is preparing to nominate the Illumination boss to its board of directors. Meledandri and Nintendo have partnered on the forthcoming Super Mario animated feature, which Illumination is producing. In its report for the fiscal year ended March 2021, Nintendo stated: Mr. Meledandri, the founder of Illumination Entertainment, has extensive experience as a film producer. We would like to nominate him as a new Outside Director with the expectation that he will appropriately supervise our companyʼs management from an objective perspective, while providing valuable advice to our organization, based on his broad experience and insight gained as a leader in the field of entertainment. The nomination will be formalized at the company’s 81st annual general meeting of shareholders in June. The Universal-owned Illumination is behind the $3.7 billion Despicable Me franchise — the highest-grossing in animation history — as well as Sing, The Grinch, the two Secret Life of Pets films, and more. Its next feature release, Sing 2, is due out on December 22, 2021. Meledandri was previously the founding president of 20th Century Fox Animation, where he oversaw the creation of the Ice Age franchise. Last month, Nintendo global president Shuntaro Furukawa hinted that animated spin-offs may become a bigger part of its strategy in the near future: “Animation, in general, is something that we are looking into, and not just this [ Mario ] franchise.” What Do You Think? Please enable JavaScript to view the poll powered by Disqus. Share Tweet Email 0 Read More: Chris Meledandri Illumination Entertainment Nintendo Location: Japan Alex Dudok de Wit More Articles Alex Dudok de Wit is Deputy Editor of Cartoon Brew. Sponsored Stories from Cartoon Brew Sponsored by Basque Audiovisual A Year Of International Achievements And New Challenges For Basque Animation By Cartoon Brew Connect | 5 months ago Sponsored by SVA 3 SVA Students Share Their Amazing Creative Journeys Outside Of The Classroom By Cartoon Brew Connect | 4 months ago Sponsored by Reallusion Enter Reallusion’s 2024 Animation At Work Contest; Deadline Is January 7 By Cartoon Brew Connect | 6 months ago Latest News from Cartoon Brew Business The Hive Studio Expands To Europe With New Athens Studio By Amid Amidi | 4 hours ago Cartoon Brew Pick Cartoon Brew Pick: ‘Is That All There Is?’ By Josh O’Caoimh By Chris Robinson | 7 hours ago Anime Mamoru Hosoda’s ‘Scarlet’ Coming To U.S. Theaters In December 2025 By Amid Amidi | 1 day ago Feature Film Netflix Debuts Teaser For ‘Lost In Starlight,’ Its First Korean Original Animated Film By Amid Amidi | 1 day ago Box Office Report ‘The King Of Kings’ Squashes ‘Parasite’ To Become Top-Grossing Korean Film In U.S. History By Amid Amidi | 1 day ago Business South Korean Government To Invest $1 Billion Into Animation Industry By Amid Amidi | 4 days ago Books Join Us For Today’s Cartoon Brew Livestream: A Conversation With Bill Kroyer By Amid Amidi | 5 days ago Cartoon Brew Pick ‘No Leaders, Please’ Is An Exploration Of The Fluid And Shapeshifting Nature Of Identity By Chris Robinson | 5 days ago Feature Film Netflix To Release ‘KPOP Demon Hunters’ On June 20 By Amid Amidi | 5 days ago Feature Film Annecy Selects 21 Animated Features For Competition Lineups By Amid Amidi | 6 days ago Feature Film Netflix Announces Annecy Festival Line-Up Including World Premiere Of ‘Fixed’ By Amid Amidi | 6 days ago Festivals Cartoon Network Studios 25th Anniversary Panel At Annecy Will Feature Genndy Tartakovsky, Craig McCracken, Rebecca Sugar, Pen Ward, And Others By Amid Amidi | 6 days ago Share Tweet Email 0 About Cartoon Brew Staff Submit a Tip Comment Guidelines Contact us Advertise on Cartoon Brew Today ©2025 Cartoon Brew, LLC. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy 52814 × ‹ › × Previous Next