Norwood teacher named 2020 Ohio Teacher of the Year Skip to content Breaking Through Business Spotlight Breaking the Silence: Teens Fighting Suicide 19 For A Cure NOW in the NATI Watch LIVE Video FOX19 Now Apps News Cincinnati’s Crime Vault Weather Salute to Heroes Bengals Sports About Us Home Newsletter Sign Up Programming Schedule Watch Live Video FOX19 Apps News Salute to Heroes Pike County Massacre Cincinnati's Crime Vault Breaking the Silence: Teens Fighting Suicide FOX19 NOW Bright Side NOW in the NATI Cincinnati Rising Breaking Through Recalls Weather First Alert 24/7 Weather 7-Day Forecast Weather Cams Ahead of the Storm weather specials Weather Closings and Delays Submit Photos & Videos Bengals Sports Bengals Reds Cincinnati's Sports Show FC Cincinnati Highlights High School Sports Baxla Tractor Athlete of the Month OrthoCinsational Play of the Week 19 on the Clock Xavier Podcasts Cincinnati’s Crime Vault 19 on the Clock Morning Show FOX19 NOW Kitchen Cuisine Interviews Kickin’ it with Ken Smile It's Your Birthday! Traffic About Us NEXTGEN TV Meet the FOX19 team Calendar FOX19 Now Apps Digital Advertising Solutions Job Postings Featured Business 19 for a Cure Breaking Through Contests Business Spotlight Sponsored Content PowerNation NextGen TV Zeam - News Streams Circle Country Gray DC Bureau InvestigateTV Watching Your Wallet Digital Marketing Norwood teacher named 2020 Ohio Teacher of the Year 20020 Ohio Teacher of the Year Leila Kubesch (Matthew Wood) By Brian Planalp Published : Oct. 4, 2019 at 12:56 PM EDT Email This Link Share on Facebook Share on X (formerly Twitter) Share on Pinterest Share on LinkedIn CINCINNATI (FOX19) - Norwood’s Leila Kubesch is the 2020 Ohio Teacher of the Year. State Superintendent of Public Instruction Paolo DeMaria delivered the award at a surprise all-school assembly including state and local government officials. "Leila Kubesch taps into her students’ interests and passions and enables them to reach their full potential,” DeMaria said. “She fundamentally believes that every child can succeed – and she holds herself and her students to high expectations to achieve that success.” Kubesch teaches Spanish and English as a second language. She is the first Norwood teacher to receive the award in its 56-year history and the first teacher awarded for instruction in the subject of Spanish. Ohio Department of Education officials cited Kubesch’s resourcefulness, creative approaches to lessons, and pursuit of community partnerships where students can participate in service-learning projects. They also praised her goal of empowering all youth in the same manner as those in more affluent communities. Among her many impactful efforts, officials singled out one in which her students collaborated with a local cable television station and other partners to create a talk show involving community experts on topics that interest youth. The project earned Kubesch and her students the Ohio Educational Association Media for Public Service Award for excellent educational programming. Officials also highlighted Kubesch’s social justice work outside the classroom, in particular, her advocacy for emancipated foster youth in Ohio. "Leila is a force in bringing our students and community together in the act of learning,” Norwood City School District Superintendent Katherine Sabo said. “She regularly visits the homes of her students to cultivate mutual trust and respect, and to make sure parents stay involved in the education of their children.” Kubesch is a National Board Certified teacher and holds a Master of Science in Educational Leadership as well as a Master of Arts in Secondary Education, both from Purdue University. Copyright 2019 WXIX. All rights reserved. Most Read KSP identifies man shot, killed by sheriff’s deputies outside Amazon facility Tri-State severe thunderstorm watch extended until midnight Man facing rape charge after found naked in 13-year-old girl’s bedroom: Sheriff Greater Cincinnati man arrested on murder charge in Indiana woman’s death Woman pushing child in stroller struck by vehicle UPS to cut 20,000 jobs, close 70 facilities as it reduces amount of Amazon shipments it handles Fairfield mother claims she was assaulted in road rage incident after attempting to get driver’s information County Commissioners vote 2-1 for Paycor Stadium upgrades Latest News Boone County Schools community hosts mental health awareness event Suspect arrested after teen injured in weekend shooting near UC Boone County Schools community hosts mental health awareness event Firefighter’s legacy lives on through golf tournament raising money for department Firefighter’s legacy lives on through golf tournament raising money for department Weather Overnight UC graduates earning both college, high school diplomas Tuesday's Reds, Cardinals game postponed News Weather Sports WXIX Careers Contact the Newsroom WXIX 635 West Seventh Street Cincinnati, OH 45203 (513) 421-1919 Public Inspection File FCC Applications FOX19QUESTIONS@FOX19NOW.COM 513-562-2405 Terms of Service Privacy Policy EEO Report Advertising Digital Marketing Closed Captioning/Audio Description At Gray, our journalists report, write, edit and produce the news content that informs the communities we serve. Click here to learn more about our approach to artificial intelligence. A Gray Local Media Station © 2002-2025