Alexa unveils new speech recognition, text-to-speech technologies - Amazon Science Close Close Research areas Automated reasoning Cloud and systems Computer vision Conversational AI Economics Information and knowledge management Machine learning Operations research and optimization Quantum technologies Robotics Search and information retrieval Security, privacy, and abuse prevention Sustainability Automated reasoning Cloud and systems Computer vision Conversational AI Economics Information and knowledge management Machine learning Operations research and optimization Quantum technologies Robotics Search and information retrieval Security, privacy, and abuse prevention Sustainability Blog Publications Conferences Code and datasets Academia Academics at Amazon Amazon Nova AI Challenge Amazon Research Awards Research collaborations Academics at Amazon Amazon Nova AI Challenge Amazon Research Awards Research collaborations Careers Newsletter Social twitter instagram youtube facebook linkedin github rss Menu Research areas Automated reasoning Cloud and systems Computer vision Conversational AI Economics Information and knowledge management Machine learning Operations research and optimization Quantum technologies Robotics Search and information retrieval Security, privacy, and abuse prevention Sustainability Automated reasoning Cloud and systems Computer vision Conversational AI Economics Information and knowledge management Machine learning Operations research and optimization Quantum technologies Robotics Search and information retrieval Security, privacy, and abuse prevention Sustainability Blog Publications Conferences Code and datasets Academia Academics at Amazon Amazon Nova AI Challenge Amazon Research Awards Research collaborations Academics at Amazon Amazon Nova AI Challenge Amazon Research Awards Research collaborations Careers Newsletter Search Submit Search Conversational AI Alexa unveils new speech recognition, text-to-speech technologies Leveraging large language models will make interactions with Alexa more natural and engaging. By Staff writer September 20, 2023 Share Share Copy link Email X LinkedIn Facebook Line Reddit QZone Sina Weibo WeChat WhatsApp 分享到微信 x Today in Arlington, Virginia, at Amazon’s new HQ2, Amazon senior vice president Dave Limp hosted an event at which the Devices and Services organization rolled out its new lineup of products and services. For part of the presentation, Limp was joined by Rohit Prasad, an Amazon senior vice president and head scientist for artificial general intelligence, who previewed a host of innovations from the Alexa team. Prasad’s main announcement was the release of the new Alexa large language model (LLM) , a larger and more generalized model that has been optimized for voice applications. This model can converse with customers on any topic; it’s been fine-tuned to reliably make the right API calls, so it will turn on the right lights and adjust the temperature in the right rooms; it’s capable of proactive, inference-based personalization, so it can highlight calendar events, recently played music, or even recipe recommendations based on a customer’s grocery purchases; it has several knowledge-grounding mechanisms, to make its factual assertions more reliable; and it has guardrails in place to protect customer privacy. New Amazon speech technologies leverage large language models to make interactions with Alexa more natural and engaging. During the presentation, Prasad discussed several other upgrades to Alexa’s conversational-AI models, designed to make interactions with Alexa more natural. One is a new way of invoking Alexa by simply looking at the screen of a camera-enabled Alexa device, eliminating the need to say the wake word on every turn: on-device visual processing is combined with acoustic models to determine whether a customer is speaking to Alexa or someone else. Related content “Ambient intelligence" will accelerate advances in general AI Alexa’s chief scientist on how customer-obsessed science is accelerating general intelligence. Alexa has also had its automatic-speech-recognition (ASR) system overhauled — including machine learning models, algorithms, and hardware — and it’s moving to a new large text-to-speech (LTTS) model that’s based on the LLM architecture and is trained on thousands of hours of multispeaker, multilingual, multiaccent, and multi-speaking-style audio data. Finally, Prasad unveiled Alexa’s new speech-to-speech model, an LLM-based model that produces output speech directly from input speech. With the speech-to-speech model, Alexa will exhibit humanlike conversational attributes, such as laughter, and it will be able to adapt its prosody not only to the content of its own utterances but to the speaker’s prosody as well — for instance, responding with excitement to the speaker’s excitement. The ASR update will go live later this year; both LTTS and the speech-to-speech model will be deployed next year. Speech recognition The new Alexa ASR model is a multibillion-parameter model trained on a mix of short, goal-oriented utterances and longer-form conversations. Training required a careful alternation of data types and training targets to ensure best-in-class performance on both types of interactions. To accommodate the larger ASR model, Alexa is moving from CPU-based speech processing to hardware-accelerated processing. The inputs to an ASR model are frames of data, or 30-millisecond snapshots of the speech signal’s frequency spectrum. On CPUs, frames are typically processed one at a time. But that’s inefficient on GPUs, which have many processing cores that run in parallel and need enough data to keep them all busy. Related content How dynamic lookahead improves speech recognition Determining on the fly how much additional audio to process to resolve ambiguities increases accuracy while reducing latency relative to fixed-lookahead approaches. Alexa’s new ASR engine accumulates frames of input speech until it has enough data to ensure adequate work for all the cores in the GPUs. To minimize latency, it also tracks the pauses in the speech signal, and if the pause duration is long enough to indicate the possible end of speech, it immediately sends all accumulated frames. The batching of speech data required for GPU processing also enables a new speech recognition algorithm that uses dynamic lookahead to improve ASR accuracy. Typically, when a streaming ASR application is interpreting an input frame, it uses the preceding frames as context : information about past frames can constrain its hypotheses about the current frame in a useful way. With batched data, however, the ASR model can use not only the preceding frames but also the following frames as context, yielding more accurate hypotheses . The final determination of end-of-speech is made by an ASR engine’s end-pointer . The earliest end-pointers all relied on pause length. Since the advent of end-to-end speech recognition, ASR models have been trained on audio-text pairs whose texts include a special end-of-speech token at the end of each utterance. The model then learns to output the token as part of its ASR hypotheses, indicating end of speech. Related content RescoreBERT: Using BERT models to improve ASR rescoring Knowledge distillation and discriminative training enable efficient use of a BERT-based model to rescore automatic-speech-recognition hypotheses. Alexa’s ASR engine has been updated with a new two-pass end-pointer that can better handle the type of mid-sentence pauses common in more extended conversational exchanges The second pass is performed by an end-pointing arbitrator , which takes as input the ASR model’s transcription of the current speech signal and its encoding of the signal. While the encoding captures features necessary for speech recognition, it also contains information useful for identifying acoustic and prosodic cues that indicate whether a user has finished speaking. The end-pointing arbitrator is a separately trained deep-learning model that outputs a decision about whether the last frame of its input truly represents end of speech. Because it factors in both semantic and acoustic data, its judgments are more accurate than those of a model that prioritizes one or the other. And because it takes ASR encodings as input, it can leverage the ever-increasing scale of ASR models to continue to improve accuracy. Once the new ASR model has generated a set of hypotheses about the text corresponding to the input speech, the hypotheses pass to an LLM that has been fine-tuned to rerank them , to yield more accurate results. The architecture of the new two-stage end-pointer. In the event that the new, improved end-pointer cuts off speech too soon, Alexa can still recover, thanks to a model that helps repair truncated speech. Applied scientist Marco Damonte and Angus Addlesee, a former intern studying artificial intelligence at Heriot-Watt University, described this model on the Amazon Science blog after presenting a paper about it at Interspeech . The model produces a graph representation of the semantic relationships between words in an input text. From the map, downstream models can often infer the missing information; when they can’t, they can still often infer the semantic role of the missing words, which can help Alexa ask clarifying questions. This, too, makes conversation with Alexa more natural. Large text-to-speech Unlike earlier TTS models, LTTS is an end-to-end model. It consists of a traditional text-to-text LLM and a speech synthesis model that are fine-tuned in tandem, so the output of the LLM is tailored to the needs of the speech synthesizer. The fine-tuning dataset consists of thousands of hours of speech, versus the 100 or so hours used to train earlier models. Related content Interspeech: Where speech recognition and synthesis converge Senior principal scientist Jasha Droppo on the shared architectures of large language models and spectrum quantization text-to-speech models — and other convergences between the two fields. The fine-tuned LTTS model learns to implicitly model the prosody, tonality, intonation, paralinguistics, and other aspects of speech, and its output is used to generate speech. The result is speech that combines the complete range of emotional elements present in human communication — such as curiosity when asking questions and comic joke deliveries — with natural disfluencies and paralinguistic sounds (such as ums, ahs, or muttering) to create natural, expressive, and human-like speech output. A comparison of Alexa's existing text-to-speech model and the new LTTS model. Existing model LTTS model To further enhance the model’s expressivity, the LTTS model can be used in conjunction with another LLM fine-tuned to tag input text with “stage directions” indicating how the text should be delivered. The tagged text then passes to the TTS model for conversion to speech. The speech-to-speech model The Alexa speech-to-speech model will leverage a proprietary pretrained LLM to enable end-to-end speech processing: the input is an encoding of the customer’s speech signal, and the output is an encoding of Alexa’s speech signal in response. That encoding is one of the keys to the approach. It’s a learned encoding, and it represents both semantic and acoustic features. The speech-to-speech model uses the same encoding for both input and output; the output is then decoded to produce an acoustic signal in one of Alexa’s voices. The shared “vocabulary” of input and output is what makes it possible to build the model atop a pretrained LLM. A sample speech-to-speech interaction The LLM is fine-tuned on an array of different tasks, such as speech recognition and speech-to-speech translation, to ensure its generality. The speech-to-speech model has a multistep training procedure: (1) pretraining of modality-specific text and audio models; (2) multimodal training and intermodal alignment; (3) initialization of the speech-to-speech LLM; (4) fine-tuning of the LLM on a mix of self-supervised losses and supervised speech tasks; (5) alignment to desired customer experience. Alexa’s new capabilities will begin rolling out over the next few months. Research areas Conversational AI Tags Alexa Automatic speech recognition (ASR) Text-to-speech (TTS) Large language models (LLMs) About the Author Staff writer Related content A quick guide to Amazon’s 50-plus papers at EMNLP 2024 Staff writer November 14, 2024 Large language models predominate, both as a research subject themselves and as tools for researching topics of particular interest to Amazon, such as speech, recommendations, and information retrieval. Conversational AI Detoxification of large language models via regularized fine-tuning Charith Peris November 21, 2024 Attribute-controlled fine-tuning can produce LLMs that adhere to policy while achieving competitive performance on general benchmarks. Conversational AI Training large language models more efficiently Dhananjay Ram , Nikolaos Pappas March 27, 2025 Training separate models on different datasets and then merging them reduces computational costs by as much as 91%. Conversational AI Work with us See more jobs See more jobs Manager, Applied Scientist IN, TS, Hyderabad Welcome to the Worldwide Returns & ReCommerce team (WWR&R) at Amazon.com. WWR&R is an agile, innovative organization dedicated to ‘making zero happen’ to benefit our customers, our company, and the environment. Our goal is to achieve the three zeroes: zero cost of returns, zero waste, and zero defects. We do this by developing products and driving truly innovative operational excellence to help customers keep what they buy, recover returned and damaged product value, keep thousands of tons of waste from landfills, and create the best customer returns experience in the world. We have an eye to the future – we create long-term value at Amazon by focusing not just on the bottom line, but on the planet. We are building the most sustainable re-use channel we can by driving multiple aspects of the Circular Economy for Amazon – Returns & ReCommerce. Amazon WWR&R is comprised of business, product, operational, program, software engineering and data teams that manage the life of a returned or damaged product from a customer to the warehouse and on to its next best use. Our work is broad and deep: we train machine learning models to automate routing and find signals to optimize re-use; we invent new channels to give products a second life; we develop highly respected product support to help customers love what they buy; we pilot smarter product evaluations; we work from the customer backward to find ways to make the return experience remarkably delightful and easy; and we do it all while scrutinizing our business with laser focus. You will help create everything from customer-facing and vendor-facing websites to the internal software and tools behind the reverse-logistics process. You can develop scalable, high-availability solutions to solve complex and broad business problems. We are a group that has fun at work while driving incredible customer, business, and environmental impact. We are backed by a strong leadership group dedicated to operational excellence that empowers a reasonable work-life balance. As an established, experienced team, we offer the scope and support needed for substantial career growth. Amazon is earth’s most customer-centric company and through WWR&R, the earth is our customer too. Come join us and innovate with the Amazon Worldwide Returns & ReCommerce team! Applied Scientist, Personalization GB, MLN, Edinburgh We’re looking for a Machine Learning Scientist in the Personalization team for our Edinburgh office experienced in generative AI and large models. You will be responsible for developing and disseminating customer-facing personalized recommendation models. This is a hands-on role with global impact working with a team of world-class engineers and scientists across the Edinburgh offices and wider organization. You will lead the design of machine learning models that scale to very large quantities of data, and serve high-scale low-latency recommendations to all customers worldwide. You will embody scientific rigor, designing and executing experiments to demonstrate the technical efficacy and business value of your methods. You will work alongside a science team to delight customers by aiding in recommendations relevancy, and raise the profile of Amazon as a global leader in machine learning and personalization. Successful candidates will have strong technical ability, focus on customers by applying a customer-first approach, excellent teamwork and communication skills, and a motivation to achieve results in a fast-paced environment. Our position offers exceptional opportunities for every candidate to grow their technical and non-technical skills. If you are selected, you have the opportunity to make a difference to our business by designing and building state of the art machine learning systems on big data, leveraging Amazon’s vast computing resources (AWS), working on exciting and challenging projects, and delivering meaningful results to customers world-wide. Key job responsibilities Develop machine learning algorithms for high-scale recommendations problems. Rapidly design, prototype and test many possible hypotheses in a high-ambiguity environment, making use of both quantitative analysis and business judgement. Collaborate with software engineers to integrate successful experimental results into large-scale, highly complex Amazon production systems capable of handling 100,000s of transactions per second at low latency. Report results in a manner which is both statistically rigorous and compellingly relevant, exemplifying good scientific practice in a business environment. Sr. Applied Scientist, Prime Video Peak Forecasting US, WA, Seattle Prime Video is a first-stop entertainment destination offering customers a vast collection of premium programming in one app available across thousands of devices. Prime members can customize their viewing experience and find their favorite movies, series, documentaries, and live sports – including Amazon MGM Studios-produced series and movies; licensed fan favorites; and programming from Prime Video add-on subscriptions such as Apple TV+, Max, Crunchyroll and MGM+. All customers, regardless of whether they have a Prime membership or not, can rent or buy titles via the Prime Video Store, and can enjoy even more content for free with ads. Are you interested in shaping the future of entertainment? Prime Video's technology teams are creating best-in-class digital video experience. As a Prime Video technologist, you’ll have end-to-end ownership of the product, user experience, design, and technology required to deliver state-of-the-art experiences for our customers. You’ll get to work on projects that are fast-paced, challenging, and varied. You’ll also be able to experiment with new possibilities, take risks, and collaborate with remarkable people. We’ll look for you to bring your diverse perspectives, ideas, and skill-sets to make Prime Video even better for our customers. With global opportunities for talented technologists, you can decide where a career Prime Video Tech takes you! In Prime Video READI, our mission is to automate infrastructure scaling and operational readiness. We are growing a team specialized in time series modeling, forecasting, and release safety. This team will invent and develop algorithms for forecasting multi-dimensional related time series. The team will develop forecasts on key business dimensions with optimization recommendations related to performance and efficiency opportunities across our global software environment. As a founding member of the core team, you will apply your deep coding, modeling and statistical knowledge to concrete problems that have broad cross-organizational, global, and technology impact. Your work will focus on retrieving, cleansing and preparing large scale datasets, training and evaluating models and deploying them to production where we continuously monitor and evaluate. You will work on large engineering efforts that solve significantly complex problems facing global customers. You will be trusted to operate with complete independence and are often assigned to focus on areas where the business and/or architectural strategy has not yet been defined. You must be equally comfortable digging in to business requirements as you are drilling into design with development teams and developing production ready learning models. You consistently bring strong, data-driven business and technical judgment to decisions. You will work with internal and external stakeholders, cross-functional partners, and end-users around the world at all levels. Our team makes a big impact because nothing is more important to us than delivering for our customers, continually earning their trust, and thinking long term. You are empowered to bring new technologies to your solutions. If you crave a sense of ownership, this is the place to be. Applied Scientist , Amazon US, WA, Seattle Amazon Advertising operates at the intersection of eCommerce and advertising, and is investing heavily in building a world-class advertising business. We are defining and delivering a collection of self-service performance advertising products that drive discovery and sales. Our products are strategically important to our Retail and Marketplace businesses driving long-term growth. We deliver billions of ad impressions and millions of clicks daily and are breaking fresh ground to create world-class products to improve both shopper and advertiser experience. With a broad mandate to experiment and innovate, we grow at an unprecedented rate with a seemingly endless range of new opportunities. The Ad Response Prediction team in Sponsored Products organization build advanced deep-learning models, large-scale machine-learning pipelines, and real-time serving infra to match shoppers’ intent to relevant ads on all devices, for all contexts and in all marketplaces. Through precise estimation of shoppers’ interaction with ads and their long-term value, we aim to drive optimal ads allocation and pricing, and help to deliver a relevant, engaging and delightful ads experience to Amazon shoppers. As the business and the complexity of various new initiatives we take continues to grow, we are looking for talented Applied Scientists to join the team. Key job responsibilities As a Applied Scientist II, you will: * Conduct hands-on data analysis, build large-scale machine-learning models and pipelines * Work closely with software engineers on detailed requirements, technical designs and implementation of end-to-end solutions in production * Run regular A/B experiments, gather data, perform statistical analysis, and communicate the impact to senior management * Establish scalable, efficient, automated processes for large-scale data analysis, machine-learning model development, model validation and serving * Provide technical leadership, research new machine learning approaches to drive continued scientific innovation * Be a member of the Amazon-wide Machine Learning Community, participating in internal and external MeetUps, Hackathons and Conferences Applied Scientist, Prime Video - Content Understanding and Enrichment US, WA, Seattle Prime Video is a first-stop entertainment destination offering customers a vast collection of premium programming in one app available across thousands of devices. Prime members can customize their viewing experience and find their favorite movies, series, documentaries, and live sports – including Amazon MGM Studios-produced series and movies; licensed fan favorites; and programming from Prime Video add-on subscriptions such as Apple TV+, Max, Crunchyroll and MGM+. All customers, regardless of whether they have a Prime membership or not, can rent or buy titles via the Prime Video Store, and can enjoy even more content for free with ads. Are you interested in shaping the future of entertainment? Prime Video's technology teams are creating best-in-class digital video experience. As a Prime Video team member, you’ll have end-to-end ownership of the product, user experience, design, and technology required to deliver state-of-the-art experiences for our customers. You’ll get to work on projects that are fast-paced, challenging, and varied. You’ll also be able to experiment with new possibilities, take risks, and collaborate with remarkable people. We’ll look for you to bring your diverse perspectives, ideas, and skill-sets to make Prime Video even better for our customers. With global opportunities for talented technologists, you can decide where a career Prime Video Tech takes you! Key job responsibilities As an Applied Scientist in the Content Understanding Team, you will lead the end-to-end research and deployment of video and multi-modal models applied to a variety of downstream applications. More specifically, you will: - Work backwards from customer problems to research and design scientific approaches for solving them - Work closely with other scientists, engineers and product managers to expand the depth of our product insights with data, create a variety of experiments to determine the high impact projects to include in planning roadmaps - Stay up-to-date with advancements and the latest modeling techniques in the field - Publish your research findings in top conferences and journals About the team Our Prime Video Content Understanding team builds holistic media representations (e.g. descriptions of scenes, semantic embeddings) and apply them to new customer experiences supply chain problems. Our technology spans the entire Prime Video catalogue globally, and we enable instant recaps, skip intro timing, ad placement, search, and content moderation. Applied Scientist, Prime Video - Content Understanding and Enrichment US, WA, Seattle Prime Video is a first-stop entertainment destination offering customers a vast collection of premium programming in one app available across thousands of devices. Prime members can customize their viewing experience and find their favorite movies, series, documentaries, and live sports – including Amazon MGM Studios-produced series and movies; licensed fan favorites; and programming from Prime Video add-on subscriptions such as Apple TV+, Max, Crunchyroll and MGM+. All customers, regardless of whether they have a Prime membership or not, can rent or buy titles via the Prime Video Store, and can enjoy even more content for free with ads. Are you interested in shaping the future of entertainment? Prime Video's technology teams are creating best-in-class digital video experience. As a Prime Video team member, you’ll have end-to-end ownership of the product, user experience, design, and technology required to deliver state-of-the-art experiences for our customers. You’ll get to work on projects that are fast-paced, challenging, and varied. You’ll also be able to experiment with new possibilities, take risks, and collaborate with remarkable people. We’ll look for you to bring your diverse perspectives, ideas, and skill-sets to make Prime Video even better for our customers. With global opportunities for talented technologists, you can decide where a career Prime Video Tech takes you! Key job responsibilities As an Applied Scientist in the Content Understanding Team, you will lead the end-to-end research and deployment of video and multi-modal models applied to a variety of downstream applications. More specifically, you will: - Work backwards from customer problems to research and design scientific approaches for solving them - Work closely with other scientists, engineers and product managers to expand the depth of our product insights with data, create a variety of experiments to determine the high impact projects to include in planning roadmaps - Stay up-to-date with advancements and the latest modeling techniques in the field - Publish your research findings in top conferences and journals About the team Our Prime Video Content Understanding team builds holistic media representations (e.g. descriptions of scenes, semantic embeddings) and apply them to new customer experiences supply chain problems. Our technology spans the entire Prime Video catalogue globally, and we enable instant recaps, skip intro timing, ad placement, search, and content moderation. Senior Applied Scientist, FireTV US, WA, Seattle Do you want to re-invent how millions of people consume video content on their TVs, Tablets and Alexa? We are building a free to watch streaming service called Fire TV Channels (https://techcrunch.com/2023/08/21/amazon-launches-fire-tv-channels-app-400-fast-channels/). Our goal is to provide customers with a delightful and personalized experience for consuming content across News, Sports, Cooking, Gaming, Entertainment, Lifestyle and more. You will work closely with engineering and product stakeholders to realize our ambitious product vision. You will get to work with Generative AI and other state of the art technologies to help build personalization and recommendation solutions from the ground up. You will be in the driver's seat to present customers with content they will love. Using Amazon’s large-scale computing resources, you will ask research questions about customer behavior, build state-of-the-art models to generate recommendations and run these models to enhance the customer experience. You will participate in the Amazon ML community and mentor Applied Scientists and Software Engineers with a strong interest in and knowledge of ML. Your work will directly benefit customers and you will measure the impact using scientific tools. Applied Scientist, Artificial General Intelligence US, MA, Boston The Artificial General Intelligence (AGI) team is looking for a passionate, talented, and inventive Applied Scientist with a strong deep learning background, to build industry-leading technology with Large Language Models (LLMs) and multi-modal systems. You will support projects that work on technologies including multi-modal model alignment, moderation systems and evaluation. Key job responsibilities As an Applied Scientist with the AGI team, you will support the development of novel algorithms and modeling techniques, to advance the state of the art with LLMs. Your work will directly impact our customers in the form of products and services that make use of speech and language technology. You will leverage Amazon’s heterogeneous data sources and large-scale computing resources to accelerate advances in generative artificial intelligence (GenAI). You are also expected to publish in top tier conferences. About the team The AGI team has a mission to push the envelope in LLMs and multimodal systems. Specifically, we focus on model alignment with an aim to maintain safety while not denting utility, in order to provide the best-possible experience for our customers. Applied Scientist III, Amzn Shipping-Prd & Tech, Amzn Shipping-Prd & Tech IN, HR, Gurugram Our customers have immense faith in our ability to deliver packages timely and as expected. A well planned network seamlessly scales to handle millions of package movements a day. It has monitoring mechanisms that detect failures before they even happen (such as predicting network congestion, operations breakdown), and perform proactive corrective actions. When failures do happen, it has inbuilt redundancies to mitigate impact (such as determine other routes or service providers that can handle the extra load), and avoids relying on single points of failure (service provider, node, or arc). Finally, it is cost optimal, so that customers can be passed the benefit from an efficiently set up network. Amazon Shipping is hiring Applied Scientists to help improve our ability to plan and execute package movements. As an Applied Scientist in Amazon Shipping, you will work on multiple challenging machine learning problems spread across a wide spectrum of business problems. You will build ML models to help our transportation cost auditing platforms effectively audit off-manifest (discrepancies between planned and actual shipping cost). You will build models to improve the quality of financial and planning data by accurately predicting ship cost at a package level. Your models will help forecast the packages required to be pick from shipper warehouses to reduce First Mile shipping cost. Using signals from within the transportation network (such as network load, and velocity of movements derived from package scan events) and outside (such as weather signals), you will build models that predict delivery delay for every package. These models will help improve buyer experience by triggering early corrective actions, and generating proactive customer notifications. Your role will require you to demonstrate Think Big and Invent and Simplify, by refining and translating Transportation domain-related business problems into one or more Machine Learning problems. You will use techniques from a wide array of machine learning paradigms, such as supervised, unsupervised, semi-supervised and reinforcement learning. Your model choices will include, but not be limited to, linear/logistic models, tree based models, deep learning models, ensemble models, and Q-learning models. You will use techniques such as LIME and SHAP to make your models interpretable for your customers. You will employ a family of reusable modelling solutions to ensure that your ML solution scales across multiple regions (such as North America, Europe, Asia) and package movement types (such as small parcel movements and truck movements). You will partner with Applied Scientists and Research Scientists from other teams in US and India working on related business domains. Your models are expected to be of production quality, and will be directly used in production services. You will work as part of a diverse data science and engineering team comprising of other Applied Scientists, Software Development Engineers and Business Intelligence Engineers. You will participate in the Amazon ML community by authoring scientific papers and submitting them to Machine Learning conferences. You will mentor Applied Scientists and Software Development Engineers having a strong interest in ML. You will also be called upon to provide ML consultation outside your team for other problem statements. If you are excited by this charter, come join us! Sr. Applied Scientist, Campaign and Creative IN, HR, Gurugram We're on a journey to build something new a green field project! Come join our team and build new discovery and shopping products that connect customers with their vehicle of choice. We're looking for a talented Senior Applied Scientist to join our team of product managers, designers, and engineers to design, and build innovative automotive-shopping experiences for our customers. This is a great opportunity for an experienced engineer to design and implement the technology for a new Amazon business. We are looking for a Applied Scientist to design, implement and deliver end-to-end solutions. We are seeking passionate, hands-on, experienced and seasoned Senior Applied Scientist who will be deep in code and algorithms; who are technically strong in building scalable computer vision machine learning systems across item understanding, pose estimation, class imbalanced classifiers, identification and segmentation.. You will drive ideas to products using paradigms such as deep learning, semi supervised learning and dynamic learning. As a Senior Applied Scientist, you will also help lead and mentor our team of applied scientists and engineers. You will take on complex customer problems, distill customer requirements, and then deliver solutions that either leverage existing academic and industrial research or utilize your own out-of-the-box but pragmatic thinking. In addition to coming up with novel solutions and prototypes, you will directly contribute to implementation while you lead. A successful candidate has excellent technical depth, scientific vision, project management skills, great communication skills, and a drive to achieve results in a unified team environment. You should enjoy the process of solving real-world problems that, quite frankly, haven’t been solved at scale anywhere before. Along the way, we guarantee you’ll get opportunities to be a bold disruptor, prolific innovator, and a reputed problem solver—someone who truly enables AI and robotics to significantly impact the lives of millions of consumers. Key job responsibilities Architect, design, and implement Machine Learning models for vision systems on robotic platforms Optimize, deploy, and support at scale ML models on the edge. Influence the team's strategy and contribute to long-term vision and roadmap. Work with stakeholders across , science, and operations teams to iterate on design and implementation. Maintain high standards by participating in reviews, designing for fault tolerance and operational excellence, and creating mechanisms for continuous improvement. Prototype and test concepts or features, both through simulation and emulators and with live robotic equipment Work directly with customers and partners to test prototypes and incorporate feedback Mentor other engineer team members. A day in the life - 6+ years of building machine learning models for retail application experience - PhD, or Master's degree and 6+ years of applied research experience - Experience programming in Java, C++, Python or related language - Experience with neural deep learning methods and machine learning - Demonstrated expertise in computer vision and machine learning techniques. See more jobs About Research areas Blog Publications Conferences Code and datasets Academia About Amazon Amazon Developer Amazon Web Services Awards and recognitions Newsletter Careers FAQs Get more from Amazon Science Subscribe to our monthly newsletter Amazon.com | Conditions of Use | Privacy | © 1996-2025 Amazon.com, Inc. or its affiliates Social twitter instagram youtube facebook linkedin github rss