Playoff formats for golf's four major championships NCCGA City Tour Blog About About Us Press Golf Jobs Resources Golf Equipment Deals Find Golf Discounts Indoor Golf Facilities Everyone can use a little golf help Subscribe NCCGA City Tour Industry Subscribe Enter a valid email address College Golf Golf Help Golf Industry All Topics New Posts College Golf Golf Help Golf Industry Playoff formats for golf's four major championships By Mike Devlin Tweet A ll major championships have unique, great moments and traditions. Many of the most memorable majors are those that hadn't concluded after 4 full rounds of golf and demanded extra holes in the form of a playoff. However, it's tough to remember which major follows what playoff format. To make it easy, we thought we'd lay out each major and the playoff structure that they follow: British Open At the Open championship any golfers that are tied for the lead at the end of regulation will play a four hole stroke-play playoff. Whoever has the lowest aggregated score on those four holes will be determined the winner.  In the event that players are still tied after the four-hole playoff, they will continue to play in a hole-by-hole sudden death (stroke-play) format until someone eventually wins a hole. The Masters A fairly simple structure here: any players that share the lead after 72 holes will continue playing in a stroke-play sudden death format. They will alternate between playing the 18th and 10th hole until a winner emerges. Although these are two great holes (on an amazing course), it’s somewhat of boring playoff structure. U.S. Open Probably the coolest playoff for golf majors.  All players that are tied atop the leaderboard after the final round will face off the next day in a full 18-hole playoff. If players are still tied after the additional 18-holes, they will then continue to play in a sudden-death format until a winner is announced. The most memorable recent playoff is probably the 2008 Open at Torrey Pines between Tiger Woods and Rocco Mediate. PGA Championship Similar to the Open Championship, all players that are tied at the PGA Championship will play a 3-hole playoff aggregate stroke play. If players are still tied after those 3 holes then they will continue playing hole-by-hole in a stroke-play (sudden death) format until there is a winner. Subscribe to stay up to date Previous article The difference between golf leagues and golf tournaments Next article 11 Places to Buy and Sell Used Golf Clubs Popular Posts National Partners About Our Story Golf Jobs Board Press Sponsors Private Policy Terms of Use Tournaments College Rankings NCCGA National Championship College Tournaments Tournaments for 21+ golfers City Tour Championship High School Tournaments Golfer Resources Golf Equipment deals Golf Stories Find Indoor Golf Facilities Find Driving Ranges Find Golf Discounts Get a Golf Handicap Golf Industry Resources PGA Pro Recognition Host an NCCGA Tournament Host a City Tour Tournament Marketing Guides Tournament Volunteering Becoming a Sponsor 55 Court St, 5th Floor, Boston, MA 02108 (617) 453-8732 info@nextgengolf.org 55 Court St, 5th Floor Boston, MA 02203 (617) 453-8732 info@nextgengolf.org