An emotional story about Iniesta's goal in the 2010 World Cup - Bitbol Últimas noticias Europa America Champions League Libertadores Historias Rincón MLS Fútbol Mexicano Haaland Camisetas de Fútbol Messi Cristiano Ronaldo Liga Inglesa La Liga Serie A Inicio Qatar 2022 Futbol Femenino eSports Conmebol Hinchadas Entrenamiento MLS Concacaf Sudamericana Liga Francesa Cuentos Futboleros Europa League Liga Argentina Asia Otras secciones Menú Seguinos Buscar Últimas noticias Europa America Champions League Libertadores Historias Rincón MLS Fútbol Mexicano Haaland Camisetas de Fútbol Messi Cristiano Ronaldo Liga Inglesa La Liga Serie A Inicio Qatar 2022 Futbol Femenino eSports Conmebol Hinchadas Entrenamiento MLS Concacaf Sudamericana Liga Francesa Cuentos Futboleros Europa League Liga Argentina Asia Escribinos Acerca del BitBol An emotional story about Iniesta's goal in the 2010 World Cup The story of the deceased footballer Daniel Jarque Bitbol English Andres Iniesta Facebook Facebook X X Telegram Telegram Whatsapp Whatsapp Mail Mail Más Por: Nicolás Sasu Jueves 26 May 2022 We all remember that mythical goal by Andrés Iniesta in the 2010 World Cup Final . It was the most emotional and exciting goal in the entire history of Spanish football , the one that would give "La Roja" its first World Cup. However, not everyone knows 100% of the story. When Iniesta scored the goal at 116 ', he automatically took off his shirt and ran to the stands to celebrate with his teammates. But if we stop right at that moment, we will see that Iniesta's shirt says the following: "Dani Jarque siempre con nosotros" , which in English would be "Dani Jarque always with us". "Dani Jarque always with us" But who was Dani Jarque ? For those who don't know, he was a Catalan football defender who played for 7 seasons at RCD Espanyol . He was even captain of the team. He played more than 200 games as a professional and scored 10 goals. Unfortunately, in 2009, during the summer tour that his team was carrying out in Italy, Jarque lost consciousness in the concentration hotel room while having a telephone conversation with his girlfriend. Although he was quickly transferred to a hospital, the doctors could not do anything to revive him and the football player lost his life on August 8, 2009 . Dani Jarque died of asystole, a problem in his heart. Daniel Jarque playing for Espanyol Jarque was a great friend of Andrés Iniesta , who suffered a lot from the loss of his dear friend. Later, Iniesta confessed that for a long time he had wanted to dedicate a footballing moment to him but had not had the opportunity: "I wanted to make him participate in the World Cup and as fate would have it, it was my turn to score the goal and show the shirt" . In the following match between Barcelona and Espanyol, Iniesta was applauded by the entire audience of the "Periquitos". Continue reading: Iniesta turns 38: Five top moments from the little magician Últimas noticias de Andres Iniesta El dolor del fútbol: los cracks que se retiraron en 2024 Esto lo hacía Iniesta: el golazo que inventó Pedri contra Atlético de Madrid... Más noticias Esta nota habla de: Andres Iniesta Dani Jarque 2010 FIFA World Cup Facebook Facebook X X Telegram Telegram Whatsapp Whatsapp Mail Mail Más Trending reads English The scandal of Luis Figo with the Italian League In addition, the event that occurred between Barcelona and Real Madrid, Luis Figo was also part of a scandal in Italy. English Impossible! Real Madrid vs Real Madrid in the Copa del Rey final? In the 1979-80 season, Real Madrid faced its reserve team, RM Castilla, in the Copa del Rey final. English Ronaldo's WORST moment: "He is the most arrogant man I have ever talked to" The Portuguese star is once again under the spotlight after a personal conversation was revealed English Legends who never played  a FIFA World Cup These players were football stars, but for one reason or another, they never managed to play in a World Cup. Facebook X Instagram Youtube enviar Revisá tu correo electrónico para confirmar tu subscripción Newsletter (Subscribirse) Acerca de Bitbol Contacto comercial Términos y condiciones Enviar un mensaje a Bitbol Tu mensaje enviar Muchas gracias por tu mensaje, te contestaremos a la brevedad powered by