The Complete List of Elon Musk Companies For Buyers Supplier Discovery Instant Quote Product Catalogs CAD Models For Suppliers Claim Your Company Advertise Thomasnet.com Programs Display Advertising Newsletter Advertising Video Advertising Services Claim Your Company Marketing Services Search Engine Optimization Website Development Services eCommerce and Product Data Inbound Marketing for Manufacturers Content Marketing Services Lead Generation Services Thomas WebTrax Resources Free eBook Library Sourcing Activity Snapshots Blog Webinars Digital Health Check Buyer Intent Report Contact Industry Insights Industry News Technical Guides Industry Videos About About Us Careers Press Room Help Center Claim Your Company Saved Suppliers Login Register For Buyers Supplier Discovery Instant Quote Product Catalogs CAD Models For Suppliers Claim Your Company Advertise Thomasnet.com Programs Display Advertising Newsletter Advertising Video Advertising Services Claim Your Company Marketing Services Search Engine Optimization Website Development Services eCommerce and Product Data Inbound Marketing for Manufacturers Content Marketing Services Lead Generation Services Thomas WebTrax Resources Free eBook Library Sourcing Activity Snapshots Blog Webinars Digital Health Check Buyer Intent Report Contact Industry Insights Industry News Technical Guides Industry Videos About About Us Careers Press Room Help Center Claim Your Company Saved Suppliers Login Register Industry News Technical Guides Industry Videos Industry News Technical Guides Industry Videos Suppliers All Suppliers Products CAD Models Diverse Suppliers Insights All Regions All Regions Alabama Alaska Alberta Arizona Arkansas British Columbia California - Northern California - Southern Colorado Connecticut Delaware District of Columbia Florida Georgia Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Manitoba Maryland Massachusetts - Eastern Massachusetts - Western Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Brunswick New Hampshire New Jersey - Northern New Jersey - Southern New Mexico New York - Metro New York - Upstate Newfoundland & Labrador North Carolina North Dakota Northwest Territories Nova Scotia Nunavut Ohio - Northern Ohio - Southern Oklahoma Ontario Oregon Pennsylvania - Eastern Pennsylvania - Western Prince Edward Island Puerto Rico Quebec Rhode Island Saskatchewan South Carolina South Dakota Tennessee Texas - North Texas - South Utah Vermont Virgin Islands Virginia Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming Yukon Industry News Technical Guides Industry Videos Industry News Technical Guides Industry Videos Industry Insights Industry Trends The Complete List of Elon Musk Companies The Complete List of Elon Musk Companies Reviewed by Audrey Altmann on 12/16/2024 . Written by Brooklyn Kiosow on 8/13/2024 . 6 min read Subscribe Elon Musk bears many titles — CEO of Tesla and SpaceX, Dogecoin enthusiast, revolutionary of space exploration, and richest man in the world — and has become a household name we all know well. In November, President-elect Donald Trump also announced that he plans for Musk to add a government role to his list of titles. Musk and Vivek Ramaswamy have been tapped to co-lead a new federal office called the "Department of Government Efficiency” during the second Trump administration. Musk founded quite a few companies most people are familiar with, but not everyone knows the role Musk has played in their success . SpaceX To reduce the cost of space exploration , Musk created SpaceX in 2002. SpaceX designs, manufactures, and launches advanced aircraft. Since its founding, SpaceX has launched 246 rockets and spacecraft, 207 of which successfully landed. Its most recent mission on July 15, dubbed the “ Starlink Mission ,” saw Falcon 9 launch 54 Starlink satellites to low-Earth orbit from Space Launch Complex 40. SpaceX is the only private company to return a spacecraft from low-Earth orbit and take humans to and from the International Space Station. The company believes in the power of a reusable rocket; it has reflown 183 of its own to embody this philosophy. The company, valued at over $100 billion, is one of the most valuable private companies in the world. X, Previously Known as Twitter The acquisition of Twitter — now known as X — by Musk spanned from April to October 2022. In January of the same year, Musk began buying shares of the American social media site before becoming its largest shareholder in April. When Musk offered to purchase the company, Twitter’s board of directors unanimously accepted his $44 billion offer. Musk’s goals for the social media site include promoting free speech, ridding of "bot” accounts, and making its algorithm open-source. While Musk had plans to terminate the agreement, he officially took over as owner and CEO of the company on October 27, 2022, and Twitter was taken private. In July 2023, Musk rebranded Twitter, naming it X. xAI On July 12, 2023, Musk announced via Twitter the launch of a new artificial intelligence (AI) company, xAI . With a goal to "understand the true nature of the universe,” some of the team’s members include previous employees of Google Research, DeepMind, and Microsoft Research. According to xAI’s website, the company is separate from X Corp but will work closely with Twitter and Tesla to accomplish its mission. Musk plans to position the company to compete with the companies behind chatbots like ChatGPT. The Boring Company Musk founded American construction company The Boring Company in 2016. Its projects are primarily designed for intra-city transit systems to solve traffic challenges and enable point-to-point transportation. According to its website, The Boring Company believes major cities need either flying cars or tunnels in order to get rid of traffic . Musk settled on the latter solution because tunnels aren’t impacted by weather changes and “won’t fall on your head.” In April 2021, The Boring Company introduced its first project at the Las Vegas Convention Center. The company created two parallel tunnels measuring 1.7 miles long, each with Tesla vehicles carrying passengers to their desired destination across the center. Neuralink Corporation Musk is also the owner and co-founder of Neuralink Corporation , a neurotechnology company developing implantable brain-machine interfaces. The company ’s main goal is to create brain implants that can communicate with phones and computers as well as help people with paralysis regain independence. “Our devices are designed to give people the ability to communicate more easily via text or speech synthesis, to follow their curiosity on the web, or to express their creativity through photography, art, or writing apps,” Neuralink’s website states. As of this year, the total investment in the company is around $5 billion . Zip2 Although Zip2 is no longer in business, it was the first enterprise Musk founded back in 1995. The company provided a searchable business directory — basically an “internet version of the yellow pages” with maps included. The company’s mission, according to Musk, was “that everyone ought to be able to find the closest pizza parlour and to be able to figure out how to get there.” In 1999, Compaq Computer Corporation acquired Zip2 for $307 million. OpenAI Musk founded OpenAI, a nonprofit research and development company, in 2015. Although he resigned from the board in 2018, he remains a major donor. The company is a DeepMind competitor with the goal of ensuring that “artificial general intelligence benefits all of humanity.” OpenAI is one of the leading AI research labs in the world, with the ultimate goal of being the first company to design a machine with the learning and reasoning powers of a human mind. Tesla The company Musk is probably most well known for is Tesla. An American electric vehicle and clean energy company, Tesla has made headlines since its founding in 2003 thanks to its advancements in the automotive industry and its clean energy efforts. Tesla hopes to accelerate the transition to sustainable energy by producing energy storage systems such as solar panels and solar roof tiles , as well as batteries for electric vehicles. While the company has a number of accolades under its belt, it notably designed the first premium all-electric sedan. The company currently holds the spot as the number one automotive company in the world, with a market cap of $910 billion. SolarCity Tesla also acquired SolarCity, a company focused on door-to-door sales of solar energy generation systems. The company, which was founded in 2004 by two of Musk’s cousins, was acquired by Tesla in 2016 for $2.6 billion. However, some investors didn’t approve of the deal, as Musk had ties to the founders and “ overpaid for SolarCity, ignored their own conflicts of interest and failed to disclose ‘troubling facts’ essential to a rational analysis of the proposed deal.” PayPal This one may be a shock, but Musk is also a co-founder of PayPal. PayPal is a multinational financial technology company that works as an electronic alternative to checks or money orders by supporting online money transfers. Founded in 1998, PayPal merged with Musk’s former company, X.com, in 2000. Since then, PayPal has become a Fortune 500 company and had its best year yet in 2020 with nearly 73 million net new accounts. Subscribe Next Up in Industry Trends Trump Signs Executive Orders to Boost Coal Industry GM Adds U.K. Design Studio, Debuts New Corvette Concept Car The Circular Economy in Manufacturing Compostable Packaging: Benefits, Materials, and Applications Biodegradable Waste: Definition, Examples, and Management Show More in Industry Trends Top 5 Stories This Week 1 Trump Signs Executive Orders to Boost Coal Industry Reviewed by Audrey Altmann . Written by Nolan Beilstein . 2 GM Adds U.K. Design Studio, Debuts New Corvette Concept Car Reviewed by Audrey Altmann . Written by Andy Szal . 3 The Circular Economy in Manufacturing Reviewed by Audrey Altmann . Written by Laura Ross . 4 Compostable Packaging: Benefits, Materials, and Applications Written by Chad Brinkle . 5 Biodegradable Waste: Definition, Examples, and Management Written by Laura Ross . Industry Update Stay up to date on industry news and trends, product announcements and the latest innovations. Subscribe Find Suppliers Supplier Discovery Product Catalogs CAD Diversity Instant Quotes Buyer & Engineer Reviews Industry News Topics Thomas Index (TMX) Daily Bite Guides White Papers Certification Glossary Subscribe For Business Advertise Content & Data Services Marketing Services Thomasnet Reviews Claim Your Company Profile Thomas WebTrax Events & Webinars Site Maps Categories Featured Companies Featured Categories Featured Products Featured Catalogs About Thomas Brand Center Careers Press Room Sign Up Sign In Contact Help Center Copyright© 2025 Thomas Publishing Company. All Rights Reserved. See Terms and Conditions , Privacy Statement and California Do Not Track Notice . Website Last Modified 2024-04-05 . Thomas Register® and Thomas Regional® are part of Thomasnet.com. Thomasnet Is A Registered Trademark Of Thomas Publishing Company.