Splatoon 2 Ver. 5.5.0. Update Now Live, Full Patchnotes Shared – NintendoSoup Toggle navigation Switch Switch 2 Pokemon Merch Guides Reviews Store 0 items NintendoSoup Latest Nintendo News Splatoon 2 Ver. 5.5.0. Update Now Live, Full Patchnotes Shared Splatoon 2 Ver. 5.5.0. Update Now Live, Full Patchnotes Shared September 30, 2021 Yoerider Comments 0 Comment Following its announcement last week, Nintendo has released the Version 5.5.0. Update for Splatoon 2 . As expected, the update contains various adjustments to weapons and specials, including rolling back some changes made in the 5.4.0. update. You can check out the full patchnotes below: Ver. 5.5.0 (Released September 24, 2021) Changes to Multiplayer Specifications for some of the main weapons have changed. Weapon Change Splattershot Tentatek Splattershot Kensa Splattershot Hero Shot Replica Octoshot Replica Increased maximum damage that can be dealt from 35.0 to 36.0. Slowed damage falloff speed relative to projectile travel time. Splat Roller Krak-On Splat Roller Kensa Splat Roller Hero Roller Replica Reduced the ink consumption of horizontal and vertical swings by roughly 5%. Octobrush Octobrush Nouveau Kensa Octobrush Herobrush Replica Reduced ink consumption when moving while holding down the ZR Button by roughly 10%. Splat Dualies Enperry Splat Dualies Kensa Splat Dualies Hero Dualie Replicas Reduced ink consumption of rolling from 9% of the ink tank to 7% of the ink tank. .52 Gal .52 Gal Deco Kensa .52 Gal Reduced the radius of turf inked when a shot lands far away by roughly 5%. Points required for using specials have changed for some weapons. Weapon Before After Forge Splattershot Pro 200 190 Luna Blaster 180 170 Cherry H-3 Nozzlenose 190 180 Slosher Deco 220 210 Kensa Splat Dualies 210 200 Splat Brella Hero Brella Replica 200 190 Kensa .52 Gal 180 190 Custom Jet Squelcher 180 190 Foil Squeezer 190 200 E-liter 4K 180 190 E-liter 4K Scope 180 190 Fixed an issue in Inkblot Art Academy in which it was possible to enter the opposing team’s base by jumping over certain walls in Turf War, Splat Zones, and Rainmaker. Fixed an issue in Skipper Pavilion in which it was possible to enter the opposing team’s base by transferring between certain grates. Other Changes We observed changes after distribution of Ver 5.4.0 and made additional adjustments to slightly lower the fighting power of certain weapons that could hold the battle line from further away. Also, we made adjustments to narrow the margins by which certain weapons were strengthened in Ver 5.4.0 while also lowering the frequency at which special weapons can be triggered. At the same time, we expanded weapon choice by increasing the abilities of certain weapons that excel at closer ranges. In addition, we reviewed some of the weapons that previously had their capabilities lowered, and as a result we slightly reverted some of the lowered values and made some adjustments to points required for special weapons. We will observe the changes after this update and make further adjustments to Splatoon 2 in the future. When you download the latest update data, you will no longer be able to communicate in The Shoal with players using older update data. This update also includes changes not listed here, such as improvements to the gameplay experience. Sufficient space on the internal system memory or a microSD card is required to download the update. Save data will still be available for use after downloading the update. What do you think? Let us know in the comments. Source: Link Share this: Facebook X Switch Splatoon 2 , Switch Post navigation PREVIOUS Donkey Kong Series Has Crossed 65 Million Sales Worldwide NEXT Chocobo GP Receives More Screenshots And Footage At TGS2021 What’s Hot Guide: How To Download Your Copy Of Mario Kart World From The Nintendo Switch 2 Mario Kart World Set Pokemon Fit Plushies Featuring Alola Pokemon Announced In Japan, Launching May 2025 Nintendo Magazine 2025 Special Edition Featuring Switch 2 Now Available Online First Look At Super Mario Strikers Running On Nintendo Switch 2 Here's What Happens When You Fall Off The Track While Gliding In Mario Kart World Japanese Retailers See Record Nintendo Switch 2 Allocations Per Store, But Demand Is Far Higher Guide: How To Check if Your USB-C Camera Is Compatible With Nintendo Switch 2 More Japanese Switching Over To Pricier Nintendo Switch 2 Multi-Language System In Pre-Order Lottery Social facebook twitter instagram youtube Find Search for: Search NintendoSoup Podcast NintendoSoup Store 1Print Games Feed | Privacy Policy | Contact | 任天汤 | 1Print Games Don’t miss the news! Keep yourself up to date on the latest Nintendo and Pokemon news with us on Facebook and Twitter . We do giveaways too! ×