Reddit - The heart of the internet Skip to main content Open menu Open navigation Go to Reddit Home r/NintendoSwitch A chip A close button Get App Get the Reddit app Log In Log in to Reddit Expand user menu Open settings menu Go to NintendoSwitch r/NintendoSwitch r/NintendoSwitch The central hub for all news, updates, rumors, and topics relating to the Nintendo Switch & Nintendo Switch 2. We are a fan-run community, not an official Nintendo forum. Members Online • NintendoSwitchMods 9.23.2021 Nintendo Direct MegaThread MegaThread 9.23.2021 Nintendo Direct MegaThread Please use this thread for all pre-event hype and speculation, as well as post-event thoughts and reactions. Watch & Discuss Thread The Nintendo Direct has ended. Read our live blog Chat in our Discord Watch the VOD replay on YouTube Recap of Announcements Nintendo Switch owners are in for quite the year ahead! In the latest Nintendo Direct video presentation, Nintendo detailed a wide variety of games coming to the system this year and into 2022 – with some games launching later today! The video outlined something for everyone, including: … the next games in franchises like Bayonetta 3 , Splatoon 3 and Kirby and the Forgotten Land , a new 3D platforming-adventure in the Kirby series. … massive expansion DLC for MONSTER HUNTER RISE and free downloadable content for Mario Golf: Super Rush . … a new membership plan for Nintendo Switch Online that includes access to a growing library of classic Nintendo 64 and SEGA Genesis games, as well as all the current benefits of the service, such as NES and Super NES games, exclusives like Tetris® 99 and PAC-MAN 99 , and more. … several exciting new games from SQUARE ENIX like Voice of Cards: The Isle Dragon Roars , Chocobo GP and TRIANGLE STRATEGY . … remakes and compilations of nostalgic classics, including the HD remastered Actraiser Renaissance , Shadowrun Trilogy and Castlevania Advance Collection , a compilation featuring classic Castlevania games from the Game Boy Advance and Super NES systems. “Heading into its sixth year, Nintendo Switch and its wide variety of games continue to offer experiences for various types of players,” said Nick Chavez, Nintendo of America’s Senior Vice President of Sales, Marketing and Communications. “In this latest Nintendo Direct, we are looking ahead to a year packed with new games in well-known franchises, as well as unique and exciting titles from our development and publishing partners.” To view the Nintendo Direct video in its entirety, visit https://www.nintendo.com/nintendo-direct/09-23-2021 . Some of the highlights revealed in the video include: Nintendo Switch Online + Expansion Pack: A new membership plan is coming to Nintendo Switch Online in late October with classic Nintendo 64 and SEGA Genesis games. In addition to all the benefits of a Nintendo Switch Online membership such as online play, access to a growing library of NES and Super NES games, and more, members can play select titles like Mario Kart 64 online with up to four players for the first time ever (additional accessories required; sold separately)! The full list of classic games launching for the expanded service, with more Nintendo 64 and SEGA Genesis titles coming in the future, is as follows: Launch Lineup of Nintendo 64 Games Super Mario 64 The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time Mario Kart 64 Star Fox 64 Sin and Punishment Dr. Mario 64 Mario Tennis 64 WinBack Yoshi’s Story Upcoming Nintendo 64 Games (With More To Come!) Banjo-Kazooie Pokémon Snap The Legend of Zelda: Majora’s Mask Kirby 64: The Crystal Shards Mario Golf Paper Mario F-Zero X Launch Lineup of SEGA Genesis Games Sonic the Hedgehog 2 Streets of Rage 2 Ecco the Dolphin Castlevania: Bloodlines Contra: Hard Corps Dr. Robotnik’s Mean Bean Machine Golden Axe Gunstar Heroes M.U.S.H.A. Phantasy Star IV Ristar Shining Force Shinobi III: Return of the Ninja Master Strider Nintendo Switch Online members will also be able to pre-order two new controllers that resemble the original Nintendo 64 and SEGA Genesis controllers at a later date. These wireless controllers can be used to play these classic games on Nintendo Switch Online. More details about Nintendo Switch Online + Expansion Pack, including release timing and price, will be revealed at a later date. Kirby and the Forgotten Land : The next Kirby adventure on the Nintendo Switch system is going 3D! In this new 3D platforming game, players can freely navigate areas using familiar Kirby copy abilities. What lies in store for Kirby as he explores a mysterious setting filled with abandoned structures from a past civilization? Find out when Kirby and the Forgotten Land launches for Nintendo Switch in spring 2022. Bayonetta 3 : A new trailer for this stylish, action-filled sequel showed off gameplay for the first time, revealing a new look for Bayonetta and new mechanics, including the ability for Bayonetta to directly control demons. Bayonetta 3 will launch for Nintendo Switch in 2022. More information about the game will be released at a later date. MONSTER HUNTER RISE: SUNBREAK : Capcom is currently working on a massive, paid DLC expansion for the hit Nintendo Switch game MONSTER HUNTER RISE . The expansion will include newly added stories, locales and monsters, as well as newly added hunting actions and quest rank. MONSTER HUNTER RISE: SUNBREAK is scheduled to be released in summer 2022. More information about this massive expansion will be revealed in the future. In the meantime, soar into MONSTER HUNTER RISE during the game’s first sale – happening now through 11:59 p.m. PT on Oct. 3. Splatoon 3 : The next game in this INK-redible series features new and returning stages in 4-v-4 battles, as well as new weapons never before seen in the Splatoon games. In the game’s single-player campaign, mammals might be returning … but what does this mean? Find out more when additional details about Splatoon 3, which is scheduled to release in 2022, are revealed in the future. Voice of Cards: The Isle Dragon Roars : A spellbinding experience from the creative minds of YOKO TARO and Yosuke Saito is about to unfold. In Voice of Cards: The Isle Dragon Roars from SQUARE ENIX, players will square off in experiences that reveal themselves through cards, including turn-based battles, where their skills – and a little bit of luck – will determine the victor. This fresh take on tabletop RPGs launches for Nintendo Switch on Oct. 28. Players can try out the free demo and pre-order Voice of Cards: The Isle Dragon Roars later today! Chocobo GP : Get ready for a new racing experience! Race as familiar FINAL FANTASY characters like Chocobo and Gilgamesh using special character abilities and Magicites to speed past the competition. Engine customization options will also be available, as well as local* and online** multiplayer. Up to 64 players can compete in a bracket-style tournament to determine the racing champion! Chocobo GP launches exclusively for Nintendo Switch in 2022. TRIANGLE STRATEGY : In February, SQUARE ENIX sent out a survey for the demo version of TRIANGLE STRATEGY . Since then, the developers have been updating the game, with a focus on adjustments to the difficulty, as well as improvements to on-screen visuals, camera controls and the ability to view past conversations. The stunning HD-2D strategy RPG TRIANGLE STRATEGY launches for Nintendo Switch on March 4, 2022. Actraiser Renaissance : The classic Super NES game Actraiser returns on the Nintendo Switch system, now remastered in HD! In Actraiser Renaissance , strike down monsters in the side-scrolling action phase, Realm Acts, and cultivate lands in the world-building creation phase, Realm Management. Enjoy the much-loved original score and a rearranged soundtrack featuring new music. New stages and boss battles also await. Actraiser Renaissance launches for Nintendo Switch … later today! Dying Light 2 Stay Human – Cloud Version : In Dying Light 2 Stay Human – Cloud Version , master both parkour and tactical combat to survive in this brutal open-world action RPG. Explore alone or with up to three others in online co-op.** Unravel the dark secrets of those in power during the day, then plunder the lairs of the infected at night. Choose sides and decide the fate of the City. Dying Light 2 Stay Human – Cloud Version launches for Nintendo Switch on Feb. 4, 2022. A free demo for the game will also be available on the same day. But that’s not all: The prequel, Dying Light: Platinum Edition , is also coming to Nintendo Switch on Oct. 19. Pre-orders for the prequel start today! DELTARUNE Chapter 2 : The new expansion to DELTARUNE Chapter 1 has arrived! Enter DELTARUNE Chapter 2 and once again experience a hilarious and emotional story in the mysterious Dark World. Players will dodge everything, from balls of yarn to ambulances and missiles, in creative attacks that appeal to beginners and not-so-beginners alike. DELTARUNE Chapter 2 will be available as a free update for owners of DELTARUNE Chapter 1 later today! Animal Crossing: New Horizons Update : A new free update is coming to Animal Crossing: New Horizons this November! More details will be revealed in an Animal Crossing: New Horizons Direct airing in October. Follow Isabelle on Twitter for more information! Hyrule Warriors: Age of Calamity Expansion Pass DLC : On Oct. 29, the second wave of Hyrule Warriors: Age of Calamity Expansion Pass content arrives with a newly playable character duo, additional stages and emotional new story sequences. Defend Hyrule as the quirky duo character, Purah & Robbie, and their array of ancient technology. See how places like the Coliseum and Kakariko Village looked 100 years in the past in new story stages. Learn more about the Champions and the mysterious Guardian in emotional new story sequences as the fight for Hyrule’s future continues! Players who purchase the Expansion Pass will also gain access to Wave 1 of the DLC, which is already available. The Final DLC Fighter in Super Smash Bros. Ultimate is… : …going to be revealed soon! Masahiro Sakurai, the director of the Super Smash Bros. Ultimate game, will host a final “Mr. Sakurai Presents” video on Oct. 5 revealing the final DLC fighter. This will be the last presentation about Super Smash Bros. Ultimate DLC , so make sure to tune in! Mario Party Superstars : It’s almost time for Mario Party Superstars , which launches for Nintendo Switch on Oct. 29! In addition to the main Mario Party mode, which will see the return of several classic boards from the Nintendo 64 era, including Woody Woods, Yoshi’s Tropical Island and Horror Land, Mario Party Superstars will also feature the minigame mode Mt. Minigames, which includes the competitive Survival course and the cooperative multiplayer course Tag Match, among other courses. Mario Golf: Super Rush DLC : FORE! More free content is coming to Mario Golf: Super Rush . Later today, two new playable characters will be added to the game: Koopa Troopa and Ninji! In addition to these characters, two new courses will be added – the snowy BlusteryBasin and the desert-set Spiky Palms – as well as the ability to change the difficulty level of the CPU opponents. Download all this new content in Mario Golf: Super Rush starting later today! Disco Elysium – The Final Cut : In this groundbreaking role-playing adventure, interrogate people and uncover clues with the help of 24 inner skills. The player’s behaviors and available choices will change depending on how they develop these skills, directly impacting how the story progresses. Disco Elysium – The Final Cut launches digitally on Nintendo Switch on Oct. 12. The physical version of the game launches in early 2022. Pre-orders for the digital version start today! STAR WARS: Knights of the Old Republic : A beloved Star Wars game is coming to Nintendo Switch! Blast off to captivating planets and join forces with Jedi, droids and outcasts in this blend of action, role-playing and adventure. STAR WARS: Knights of the Old Republic launches for Nintendo Switch on Nov. 11. Pre-orders for the game start later today! Castlevania Advance Collection : Castlevania Advance Collection brings together four classic Castlevania games – Castlevania: Circle of the Moon , Castlevania: Harmony of Dissonance , Castlevania: Aria of Sorrow and Castlevania: Dracula X – with deathly beautiful graphics and hauntingly epic music. Rewind, Quick Save and Button Mapping features will also ramp up the fight against evil. All regional versions of each game, as well as a gallery mode with never-before-seen artwork, are included. Castlevania Advance Collection launches for Nintendo Switch … later today! Disney Magical World 2: Enchanted Edition : Players are invited to live in a magical world with Mickey Mouse and dozens of Disney characters! Spend time with Disney friends, craft whimsical costumes and furniture, and explore delightful Disney-themed worlds. All downloadable content from the original Nintendo 3DS version will also be included when Disney Magical World 2: Enchanted Edition launches for Nintendo Switch this holiday season. Shadowrun Trilogy : Cyberpunk meets fantasy in this three-game collection of cult classic RPGs. As a Shadowrunner mercenary, players will explore a dystopian future where magic has reawakened and fantasy creatures have come back to life. Immersive branching narratives, skill-based character growth and gripping turn-based tactical combat await in Shadowrun Trilogy , launching for Nintendo Switch in 2022. Shin Megami Tensei V : Players excited to dive into this next title in the acclaimed Shin Megami Tensei series can pre-order the game starting today! Shin Megami Tensei V launches exclusively for Nintendo Switch on Nov. 12. Rune Factory 5 : In Rune Factory 5 , players can grow crops, tame monsters and team up with townsfolk to explore a massive world. But when they aren’t off on adventures, they can also find friendship and love among a colorful cast of characters. Rune Factory 5 launches for Nintendo Switch on Mar. 22, 2022. Arcade Archives PAC-MAN / Arcade Archives XEVIOUS : Two classic NAMCO games are coming to Nintendo Switch as part of the Arcade Archives series. Play arcade hits PAC-MAN and XEVIOUS at home or on the go when they both launch for Nintendo Switch … later today! The Nintendo Direct presentation also featured a montage of upcoming Nintendo Switch games, including HOT WHEELS UNLEASHED , a high-speed racer launching on Sept. 30 that lets players collect the best vehicles in the Hot Wheels universe, build spectacular tracks and dive into high-octane races; Surviving the Aftermath , a procedurally generated world-building game set in a post-apocalyptic future, launching this winter; and Wreckfest , a demolition derby-themed racing game with soft-body damage modeling, sophisticated driving dynamics and in-depth vehicle upgrading, launching for the Nintendo Switch system this fall. Remember that Nintendo Switch features parental controls that let adults manage the content their children can access. For more information about other features, visit https://www.nintendo.com/switch/ . * Additional games and systems required. Sold separately. ** Nintendo Switch Online membership (sold separately) and Nintendo Account required for online features. Not available in all countries. Internet access required for online features. Terms apply. nintendo.com/switch-onlineFAQ --- Illumination (HQ: Santa Monica, CA, USA; Founder and CEO: Chris Meledandri) and Nintendo Co., Ltd. (HQ: Kyoto, Minami-ku, Japan; Representative Director and President: Shuntaro Furukawa, “Nintendo” hereafter) today announced that their new animated film based on the world of Super Mario Bros. will be released worldwide during the 2022 holiday season. Universal Pictures will release the film in North America on December 21, 2022, with the release schedule for additional countries and regions to be announced at a future date. The film will be co-financed by Universal Pictures and Nintendo. In addition, the two companies announced the voice actors for the characters Mario (Chris Pratt), Princess Peach (Anya Taylor-Joy), Luigi (Charlie Day), Bowser (Jack Black), Toad (Keegan-Michael Key), Donkey Kong (Seth Rogen), Cranky Kong (Fred Armisen), Kamek (Kevin Michael Richardson) and Spike (Sebastian Maniscalco). Each voice actor was cast for their ability to capture the unique spirit of their character. This new animated film will be produced by Chris Meledandri of Illumination and Shigeru Miyamoto of Nintendo, directed by Aaron Horvath and Michael Jelenic, who previously collaborated on the animated series Teen Titans Go! and the film Teen Titans Go! To the Movie s. The screenplay of the film will be written by Matthew Fogel, whose writing credits include The LEGO Movie 2: The Second Part and the upcoming Illumination film Minions: The Rise of Gru . “Mario and Luigi are two of the most beloved heroes in all of popular culture, and we are honored to have the unique opportunity to work so closely with Shigeru Miyamoto and the widely imaginative team at Nintendo to bring these characters to life in an animated movie, unlike any film Illumination has made to date,” said Chris Meledandri, Illumination’s Founder and CEO, and outside director of Nintendo. “We are collaborating with Chris and his experienced team to not just create a character licensed film, but a new piece of entertainment which brings Super Mario Bros. to life on the screen, and allows everyone to enjoy whether or not they know about the game. The production so far is constructive and going very well, and both parties are learning a lot from each other. We humbly ask that fans wait just a little longer for the premiere, and we hope they look forward to seeing the unique characters from Super Mario Bros. on the big screen,” said Shigeru Miyamoto, Representative Director, Fellow of Nintendo. What is a Nintendo Direct? A Nintendo Direct is a pre-recorded video presentation (Today's is approximately ~40m in length) to make game announcements and provide fans with general updates directly from Nintendo. What if I can't watch the Nintendo Direct or Treehouse live due to work/school/etc.? If you want the latest news the moment it's announced, read along with our reddit live thread . If you want a spoiler-free experience, we will edit in a link to a VOD replay (once it's available). This will take you directly to the video so you don't accidentally see any trailers if you visit the Nintendo YouTube page directly. Just don't scroll down! There WILL be spoilers here on the subreddit, so watch the video first. If you see any posts that should actually be here in the MegaThread, please do us a favor and hit the report button. Our SOP for posts is as follows: We will allow one post per announcement. The post we allow may not necessarily be the one that was submitted first. We typically will receive about 15 of essentially the exact same post in the span of about 60 seconds. From those, we will select the one that has the best title and links directly to the original source when available. Commentary on the announcement(s) should take place either in this thread or on the related separate announcement post. Each person's specific opinion does not need its own post. Read more Archived post. New comments cannot be posted and votes cannot be cast. New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue with Email Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy . Top 1% Rank by size Public Anyone can view, post, and comment to this community Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of September 23, 2021 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of September 2021 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2021 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Reddit, Inc. © 2025. All rights reserved. Expand Navigation Collapse Navigation &nbsp; &nbsp; TOPICS Internet Culture (Viral) Amazing Animals & Pets Cringe & Facepalm Funny Interesting Memes Oddly Satisfying Reddit Meta Wholesome & Heartwarming Games Action Games Adventure Games Esports Gaming Consoles & Gear Gaming News & Discussion Mobile Games Other Games Role-Playing Games Simulation Games Sports & Racing Games Strategy Games Tabletop Games Q&As Q&As Stories & Confessions Technology 3D Printing Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning Computers & Hardware Consumer Electronics DIY Electronics Programming Software & Apps Streaming Services Tech News & Discussion Virtual & Augmented Reality Pop Culture Celebrities Creators & Influencers Generations & Nostalgia Podcasts Streamers Tarot & Astrology Movies & TV Action Movies & Series Animated Movies & Series Comedy Movies & Series Crime, Mystery, & Thriller Movies & Series Documentary Movies & Series Drama Movies & Series Fantasy Movies & Series Horror Movies & Series Movie News & Discussion Reality TV Romance Movies & Series Sci-Fi Movies & Series Superhero Movies & Series TV News & Discussion RESOURCES About Reddit Advertise Reddit Pro BETA Help Blog Careers Press Communities Best of Reddit Topics