Las Vegas Raiders hire the first Black female team president in the NFL : NPR Accessibility links Skip to main content Keyboard shortcuts for audio player Open Navigation Menu Newsletters NPR Shop Close Navigation Menu Home News Expand/collapse submenu for News National World Politics Business Health Science Climate Race Culture Expand/collapse submenu for Culture Books Movies Television Pop Culture Food Art & Design Performing Arts Life Kit Gaming Music Expand/collapse submenu for Music All Songs Considered Tiny Desk New Music Friday Music Features Live Sessions Podcasts & Shows Expand/collapse submenu for Podcasts & Shows Daily Morning Edition Weekend Edition Saturday Weekend Edition Sunday All Things Considered Fresh Air Up First Featured Embedded The NPR Politics Podcast Throughline Trump's Terms More Podcasts & Shows Search Newsletters NPR Shop All Songs Considered Tiny Desk New Music Friday Music Features Live Sessions About NPR Diversity Support Careers Press Ethics Las Vegas Raiders hire the first Black female team president in the NFL Sandra Douglass Morgan is a Las Vegas native and graduate of Eldorado High School; the University of Nevada, Reno; and the University of Nevada, Las Vegas. Sports The Las Vegas Raiders have hired the first Black female team president in the NFL July 8, 2022 12:56 AM ET By Ayana Archie Enlarge this image Sandra Douglass Morgan speaks during a news conference announcing her as the new president of the Las Vegas Raiders NFL football team Thursday, July 7, 2022, in Las Vegas. John Locher/AP hide caption toggle caption John Locher/AP Sandra Douglass Morgan speaks during a news conference announcing her as the new president of the Las Vegas Raiders NFL football team Thursday, July 7, 2022, in Las Vegas. John Locher/AP The NFL's Las Vegas Raiders have hired the first Black female team president in the league's history. Sandra Douglass Morgan, a Las Vegas native, is not new to firsts. She was the first Black city attorney in Nevada, when she served for the City of North Las Vegas, and she was the first person of color named chair of the Nevada Gaming Control Board, the team said Thursday. She is also an independent director at Allegiant Airlines, Caesars Entertainment and Fidelity National Financial Inc. Sponsor Message Sports Mike Grier becomes the first Black general manager in NHL history "It is the honor of a lifetime to join the Raiders at one of the most defining times in the team's history," Morgan said. "This team's arrival in Las Vegas has created a new energy and opportunities we never dreamed possible. I look forward to taking this team's integrity, spirit and commitment to excellence on the field into every facet of this organization." Morgan is a graduate of Eldorado High School; the University of Nevada, Reno; and the University of Nevada, Las Vegas. "The Las Vegas connection was not a criteria, but it was something that was on the positive side of the ledger," team owner Mark Davis said. "Obviously, somebody that knows this community, knows the people in it I think is very important for us to continue to build out foundation in Las Vegas." America Reckons With Racial Injustice Washington Makes NFL History, Hires First Black Team President Jason Wright The hire of Morgan comes less than a year after Jon Gruden was dismissed as head coach of the team. In October 2021, a league investigation into the Washington Football Team examining workplace misconduct uncovered emails Gruden had sent years earlier that showed he used racist, misogynistic, and homophobic slurs. Davis said the search for a new president took 10 months. Morgan said while she has experienced many firsts throughout her career, she never wants to be the last person breaking barriers. Sponsor Message "I want to get to a point, obviously, where there is no more firsts," she said. "If I could be an inspiration, or help, or open doors for any other woman and girl out there, then that's an incredible accomplishment for me." NFL Las Vegas Raiders Facebook Flipboard Email Read & Listen Home News Culture Music Podcasts & Shows Connect Newsletters Facebook Instagram Press Public Editor Corrections Contact & Help About NPR Overview Diversity NPR Network Accessibility Ethics Finances Get Involved Support Public Radio Sponsor NPR NPR Careers NPR Shop NPR Events NPR Extra Terms of Use Privacy Your Privacy Choices Text Only Sponsor Message Sponsor Message Become an NPR sponsor