Xenoblade Chronicles: Definitive Edition | Nintendo | Fandom Start a Wiki Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In Nintendo Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts Consoles Switch Switch games Lite Online Wii & Wii U Wii games Wii accessories Wii U games Wii U GamePad Virtual Console GameCube GameCube games Controller Memory Card Nintendo 64 N64 games Cartridge Accessories N64DD SNES SNES games Controller Accessories SNES CD-ROM NES NES games Famicom Disk System Controller Diskun Handhelds List of handhelds Nintendo 3DS Nintendo DS Game Boy Game & Watch Games List of games Genres Role-playing games Sports games Fighting games Platformer games Simulation games Puzzle games Music games Franchises Mario Legend of Zelda Super Smash Bros. Pokémon Metroid Star Fox Yoshi Devs & Publishers Nintendo Sega Sony Square Enix Capcom Hudson Soft Nintendo Co. Company Page history People Divisions Community Help and Rules General Editing Information List of editing guides Stub Templates Image Template Editor's Portal Blog Recent Blog Posts Create a Blog Post Forum Forum Index General Discussion Wiki Discussions Nintendo Switch Nintendo 3DS Wiki Projects Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In Explore Fan Central Current Advertisement Skip to content Nintendo Wiki 40,789 pages Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts Consoles Switch Switch games Lite Online Wii & Wii U Wii games Wii accessories Wii U games Wii U GamePad Virtual Console GameCube GameCube games Controller Memory Card Nintendo 64 N64 games Cartridge Accessories N64DD SNES SNES games Controller Accessories SNES CD-ROM NES NES games Famicom Disk System Controller Diskun Handhelds List of handhelds Nintendo 3DS Nintendo DS Game Boy Game & Watch Games List of games Genres Role-playing games Sports games Fighting games Platformer games Simulation games Puzzle games Music games Franchises Mario Legend of Zelda Super Smash Bros. Pokémon Metroid Star Fox Yoshi Devs & Publishers Nintendo Sega Sony Square Enix Capcom Hudson Soft Nintendo Co. Company Page history People Divisions Community Help and Rules General Editing Information List of editing guides Stub Templates Image Template Editor's Portal Blog Recent Blog Posts Create a Blog Post Forum Forum Index General Discussion Wiki Discussions Nintendo Switch Nintendo 3DS Wiki Projects in: Rated Teen by ESRB , Rated 12 by PEGI , Rated C by CERO , and 9 more Rated Mature by ACB Rated 12 by GRAC Xenoblade games 2020 video games Nintendo Switch games Monolith Soft games Nintendo games Action role-playing games Remakes English Español Xenoblade Chronicles: Definitive Edition Sign in to edit History Purge Talk (0) Game D Xenoblade Chronicles: Definitive Edition [ Edit ] [ Talk ] Developer(s) Monolith Soft Publisher(s) Nintendo Release Date(s) Nintendo Switch WW: May 29, 2020 Platform(s) Genre(s) Action role-playing Rating(s) ESRB PEGI CERO ACB 05 03 03 03 GRAC 01 Credits • Gallery • Cheats • Videos Soundtrack • Scripts Xenoblade Chronicles: Definitive Edition is a remake of Xenoblade Chronicles , a Wii action RPG that started the Xenoblade series . The Definitive Edition was released worldwide for the Nintendo Switch on May 29, 2020 . The character design of the game have been remade to look closer to the ones found in Xenoblade Chronicles 2 . A new episode called Future Connected is also included in this version of the game. It is an epilogue involving Shulk and Melia after the events of the game and taking place in a new area, Bionis' Shoulder . Contents 1 Story 2 Characters 2.1 Playable 2.2 Others 3 Development 4 Reception 4.1 Sales 5 Credits 6 Gallery 7 External links Story [ ] The game focuses on two colossal gods that long ago fought, resulting in two dead corpses. The entire game takes place on these two gods that are now frozen in place. The player travels on the gods, one representing nature and the other machinery. According to Tetsuya Takahashi , creator of the various Xeno properties, Xenoblade is not directly related to any of the previous Xeno video games. Certain thematic elements popular with Takahashi can be seen however. In the game, the developers went into development planning on making the game as fun as possible while not focusing as much on lengthy cinematics, which they explained was a path that ultimately led to a dead end with previous Xeno games. Characters [ ] Playable [ ] Artwork of Shulk , wielding the Monado. Shulk : Shulk is the main character. The eighteen year old Hom is an orphan who went off to fight the villains who attacked Colony 9 . He is the wielder of the Monado , a sword said to have been used by the Bionis, one of the titans which much of the game's story takes place on. Fiora : The sister of Dunban , the 18 year old Hom is a close friend to Shulk. She seems to have a crush on him, something he is completely oblivious to. Dunban : Prior to Shulk gaining possession of the Monado, Dunban was the wielder. He is a thirty year old Hom and the brother of Fiora. A war hero, a status which he attained after defeating every single Mechon during the Battle of Sword Valley , an event that took place one year before the events of the game. However, after this battle, overuse of the Monado left him heavily injured and he lost almost all use of his right arm. Reyn : A warrior of Colony 9 , the eighteen year old Hom is Shulk's best friend, and the two are rarely seen apart. Sharla : A medic from Colony 6 , the twenty one year old female Hom is good with guns. Melia : A member of the High Entia race, Melia is a mage living in Alcamoth . She also has a crush on Shulk, of which he is unaware. This is something she admits only to Sharla. Riki : A small, cute member of the Nopon race. Riki uses a type of weapon known as Biters . Others [ ] Development [ ] The game was announced during the Nintendo Direct that took place on the 5th of September 2019 with nothing but some footage of the new designs, the name of the game, the 2020 release window and the fact that it was a remake announced. The release date was later announced during a Nintendo Direct broadcasted on March 26. During this Direct, the Future Connected episode involving Melia and Shulk was also revealed. Reception [ ] Sales [ ] Nintendo mentioned that Xenoblade Chronicles: Definitive Edition reached 1.32 million units sold by the end of June 2020. Making it the second best selling game in the franchise behind Xenoblade Chronicles 2 . The game reached 1.52 million units sold by the end of march 2021 . Credits [ ] Main article: Xenoblade Chronicles: Definitive Edition/credits Gallery [ ] Main article: Xenoblade Chronicles: Definitive Edition/gallery External links [ ] Xenoblade Chronicles: Definitive Edition at GameFAQs Xenoblade series Games Xenoblade Chronicles ( 3D • Definitive Edition ) • Xenoblade Chronicles X ( Definitive Edition ) • Xenoblade Chronicles 2 • Xenoblade Chronicles 3 Crossovers Project X Zone 2 • Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS and Wii U • Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Monolith Soft video games Xeno series Xenosaga I & II Xenoblade Chronicles ( 3D / Definitive Edition ) • Xenoblade Chronicles 2 • Xenoblade Chronicles 3 Xenoblade Chronicles X ( Definitive Edition ) Baten Kaitos series Baten Kaitos: Eternal Wings and the Lost Ocean • Baten Kaitos Origins Crossovers Super Robot Taisen OG Saga • Super Robot Taisen OG Saga Exceed Project X Zone • Project X Zone 2 • Super Smash Bros. for Nintendo 3DS and Wii U Super Smash Bros. Ultimate Other games Dragon Ball Z: Attack of the Saiyans • Soma Bringer • Disaster: Day of Crisis Related Chrono Cross • Square Enix ( Square ) • Bandai Namco Entertainment ( Namco ) • Nintendo Categories Categories : Rated Teen by ESRB Rated 12 by PEGI Rated C by CERO Rated Mature by ACB Rated 12 by GRAC Xenoblade games 2020 video games Nintendo Switch games Monolith Soft games Nintendo games Action role-playing games Remakes Languages Español Community content is available under CC-BY-SA unless otherwise noted. Advertisement Explore properties Fandom Muthead Fanatical Follow Us Overview What is Fandom? About Careers Press Contact Terms of Use Privacy Policy Digital Services Act Global Sitemap Local Sitemap Community Community Central Support Help Advertise Media Kit Contact Fandom Apps Take your favorite fandoms with you and never miss a beat. Nintendo is a FANDOM Games Community. View Mobile Site Follow on IG TikTok Join Fan Lab