Darby McDevitt - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Games Toggle Games subsection 1.1 Upcoming 1.2 Narrative Director 1.3 Writer 1.4 Writer and designer 1.5 Producer and writer 2 Other notable works 3 Awards and nominations 4 References 5 External links Toggle the table of contents Darby McDevitt 3 languages العربية Français Русский Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia American game developer and writer (born 1975) Darby McDevitt Born Darby Christopher Mcdevitt ( 1975-08-16 ) 16 August 1975 (age 49) Spokane, Washington Alma mater National University of Ireland Occupation(s) Game Designer, Writer Years active 1999–present Darby Christopher McDevitt is an American-Canadian game developer and writer, best known for his work on the Assassin's Creed series. With a diverse professional profile spanning more than a decade, he has worked as a writer, film maker, musician, and game designer. As an employee of Ubisoft , McDevitt has been the script writer for both the story and dialogue in Assassin's Creed: Bloodlines , Assassin's Creed II: Discovery , Assassin's Creed: Embers and Assassin's Creed Unity , as well as was the lead writer for Assassin's Creed: Revelations and Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag . [ 1 ] In 2014, Darby was nominated for a Writers Guild of America Award for his work on Black Flag . [ 2 ] Darby is also recognized as a spokesperson for Ubisoft in regards to the Assassin's Creed franchise. [ 3 ] In March 2021, Darby left Ubisoft, [ 4 ] but returned in November. [ 5 ] Games [ edit ] Upcoming [ edit ] Assassin's Creed: Codename Hexe Narrative Director [ edit ] Assassin's Creed Valhalla Writer [ edit ] Assassin's Creed Valhalla (Narrative director) [ 5 ] Assassin's Creed Unity (co-writer) Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag Assassin's Creed: Revelations Assassin's Creed II: Discovery Assassin's Creed: Bloodlines The Sims 2 DS The Chronicles of Narnia: The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe The Urbz: Sims in the City Lord of the Rings: The Third Age The Sims Bustin' Out Writer and designer [ edit ] Where the Wild Things Are Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers GBA Producer and writer [ edit ] ClueFinders: The Incredible Toy Store Adventure! Other notable works [ edit ] Music Videos: "Threes" by Autographic "Change" by Sneaky Thieves "When I Die" by Sneaky Thieves "Quarry" by Sneaky Thieves "Lesser" by Sneaky Thieves "Brotherly" album medley by Sneaky Thieves Narrative and Documentary Films: "Recital" (Short) "Proscenium" (Short) "Day Fable" (Short) "The Making of Cowards Bend The Knee " (Documentary Featurette ) Music: Sneaky Thieves "Brotherly" 2010 Other Electricites "Accidents" 2007 Other Electricites Autographic "Technoir Classics" 2012 "The Attic" 2009 Awards and nominations [ edit ] Year Award Award Category Title of Work Result 2012 Writers Guild of America Award Achievement in Videogame Writing Assassin's Creed: Revelations Nominated 2012 Canadian Game Awards Best Writing Assassin's Creed: Revelations Nominated 2013 Canadian Game Awards Best Writing Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag Won 2014 Writers Guild of America Award Achievement in Videogame Writing Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag Nominated 2021 BAFTA Games Awards Best Narrative Assassin's Creed: Valhalla Nominated 2021 Canadian Game Awards Best Narrative Assassin's Creed: Valhalla Won References [ edit ] ^ Gilbert, Ben (July 14, 2011). "Assassin's Creed Lost Legacy's Concept Found in Revelations". Joystiq. Archived from the original on July 14, 2011. Retrieved September 21, 2014. ^ Rodriguez, David (January 10, 2014). "Neil Druckmann and Darby McDevitt among writers guild of America awards". Dualshockers. Archived from the original on January 10, 2014. Retrieved September 21, 2014. ^ Karmali, Luke (November 19, 2013). "Ubisoft hasn't really planned the end of Assassin's Creed". IGN. Archived from the original on November 19, 2013. Retrieved September 21, 2014. ^ "Assassin's Creed narrative boss Darby McDevitt leaving Ubisoft" . Eurogamer . 26 March 2021. ^ a b Bankhurst, Adam (2021-11-15). "Assassin's Creed Narrative Director Darby McDevitt Rejoins Ubisoft Ahead of Assassin's Creed Infinity" . IGN . Retrieved 2024-02-28 . External links [ edit ] Darby McDevitt at IMDb Interview with Darby McDevitt at Scripts & Scribes v t e Assassin's Creed Ubisoft Video games Main series Assassin's Creed II Brotherhood Revelations III The Tyranny of King Washington IV: Black Flag Freedom Cry Rogue Unity Syndicate Jack the Ripper Origins Odyssey Legacy of the First Blade Valhalla Mirage Shadows Other games Altaïr's Chronicles Bloodlines II: Discovery III: Liberation Pirates Memories Identity Chronicles Nexus VR Other media Print Novels Comics The Fall The Chain Brahman Assassin's Creed Blade of Shao Jun Forgotten Temple Film Short films Lineage Ascendance Embers Assassin's Creed Music Assassin's Creed (soundtrack) " Mirage " Characters Ezio Auditore da Firenze Ratonhnhaké꞉ton / Connor Aveline de Grandpré Edward Kenway Arno Dorian Frye twins Bayek of Siwa Alexios and Kassandra Yasuke Related Alamut Prince of Persia Watch Dogs Soulcalibur V Brawlhalla Captain Laserhawk: A Blood Dragon Remix Category Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Darby_McDevitt&oldid=1279890578 " Categories : Irish video game designers American video game writers Living people Alumni of the National University of Ireland Ubisoft people 1975 births American video game designers Hidden categories: Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Articles with hCards This page was last edited on 11 March 2025, at 05:06 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents Darby McDevitt 3 languages Add topic