Rest in Peace (The Walking Dead) - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Plot 2 Production 3 Reception Toggle Reception subsection 3.1 Critical 3.2 Ratings 4 References 5 External links Toggle the table of contents Rest in Peace ( The Walking Dead ) 1 language Português Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia 24th episode of the 11th season of The Walking Dead " Rest in Peace " The Walking Dead episode Episode no. Season 11 Episode 24 Directed by Greg Nicotero Story by Angela Kang Teleplay by Corey Reed Jim Barnes Featured music " Cult of Personality " by Living Colour " Landslide " by Fleetwood Mac Cinematography by Duane Charles Manwiller Editing by Alan Cody Original air date November 20, 2022 ( 2022-11-20 ) Running time 65 minutes Guest appearances Dan Fogler as Luke Ian Anthony Dale as Tomichi Okumura Okea Eme-Akwari as Elijah Kerry Cahill as Dianne Alex Sgambati as Jules Nadine Marissa as Nabila Anabelle Holloway as Gracie Andrew Lincoln as Rick Grimes Danai Gurira as Michonne Episode chronology ← Previous " Family " Next → — The Walking Dead (season 11) List of episodes " Rest in Peace " is the twenty-fourth and final episode of the eleventh season of the post-apocalyptic horror television series The Walking Dead . The series finale and 177th episode overall, it aired on AMC on November 20, 2022, and was simultaneously released on the network's streaming platform AMC+ . [ 1 ] The episode's teleplay was written by Corey Reed and Jim Barnes, from a story by Angela Kang , and directed by Greg Nicotero . [ 2 ] In the finale, the group escapes the horde that has invaded the Commonwealth while trying to overthrow Governor Pamela Milton ( Laila Robins ), and assembling for one last stand to save the city and their future. "Rest in Peace" features the return of Rick Grimes , portrayed by Andrew Lincoln , and Michonne , portrayed by Danai Gurira , since they left the series in season 9 and 10 , respectively. [ 3 ] The first episode of The Walking Dead: The Ones Who Live places the scene with Rick as at some point during the first five years following his disappearance in " What Comes After ". [ 4 ] The second episode of The Ones Who Live places the scenes with Michonne shortly after her departure in " What We Become ". The episode also includes flashbacks of several characters featured throughout the series. [ 5 ] The episode received generally positive reviews from critics. Reviews highlighted the end of plot threads, character development, and the return of Rick and Michonne, while some felt the setting-up of future spin-off shows detracted from the finality of the series. [ 6 ] Plot [ edit ] While attempting to bypass the horde that has invaded the Commonwealth, Jules is devoured by the horde and Luke is bitten in the leg. In a safehouse, Judith is treated by Tomi, and reveals to Daryl and Carol that Michonne had left in search of a still-alive Rick . After amputating his leg, Magna , Connie , Yumiko and Kelly emotionally gather around Luke as he dies. Meanwhile, Rosita , Gabriel and Eugene successfully rescue Coco and the other children from a house and fight their way through the horde. As they regroup in an apartment, Rosita reveals to Eugene that she was bitten by a walker, but implores him to keep it quiet. Elsewhere, Princess and Max break Mercer out of prison. Mercer subsequently leads his men and the Coalition forces in confronting Pamela as she barricades herself in the Estates. As Maggie prepares to take arms against Pamela, Negan sincerely apologizes to her for killing her husband Glenn . With the people outside the Estates' gates about to be devoured by the oncoming horde, Daryl delivers a rousing speech that causes Pamela's soldiers to turn on her and allow everyone inside. Mercer arrests Pamela for her crimes against the Commonwealth. Pamela then attempts to commit suicide by allowing a zombified Lance Hornsby to bite her, but Maggie shoots and kills the zombified Lance, realizing that justice would be better served if Pamela is imprisoned. Realizing that the hordes of the walking dead have become too dangerous to simply lead away due to the new variants present, Aaron , Lydia , Jerry and Elijah help organize the Coalition forces, with loud metal-rock music of the song ' Cult of Personality ' blaring through the PA system to herd the hordes towards areas the Estates rigged with massive quantities of explosives and fuel, which they in turn detonate and burn, destroying large parts of the Estates, but also destroying the hordes of the walking dead. The next day, Pamela is shown to be imprisoned, ostensibly for life for her corruption and crimes against the people of the Commonwealth. Maggie tells Negan that while she is grateful to him for saving the life of her son Hershel, she is still constantly reminded of what he horribly did to Glenn whenever she sees Negan's face; Negan understands this to be a request for him to leave the Commonwealth as a way towards maintaining peace. Daryl and Negan respectfully acknowledge each other as Negan later departs while the group celebrate their successes with a lavish dinner, where Rosita finally reveals that she was bitten to the group. As she begins to succumb to the infection, she bids farewell to her baby, and the group say their final goodbyes. Rosita then peacefully passes away in bed with Eugene by her side. A year later, Ezekiel and Mercer are the new governor and lieutenant governor of the Commonwealth, respectively, while Alexandria and the Hilltop have been rebuilt and are thriving, with the communities remaining united in creating a better future. Eugene and Max have a child, Rosie, together while Negan sends a letter with the compass that Judith allowed him to keep back to her. Lastly, Carol, Daryl and Maggie talk about the future, with Daryl leaving on his motorcycle to find Rick and Michonne. Far away, Rick and Michonne write letters around their own campfires while flashbacks to moments in the series appear. Wearing new armor, Michonne continues her search for Rick on horseback, riding toward a gargantuan horde of walkers. On the shores of Rat Island just outside the Civic Republic of Philadelphia, Rick is located by CRM operatives and forced to surrender, throwing his stuff into a boat where Michonne would later find them before surrendering to a helicopter with a smirk  on his face. The series concludes with Judith and R.J. looking ahead to the future, with the former saying: "We get to start over. We're The Ones Who Live ." Production [ edit ] Andrew Lincoln (left) and Danai Gurira (right) reprised their roles after being absent since 2018 and 2020 , respectively. The opening musical score differs from previous episodes because original composer Bear McCreary returned to re-record a new version with a live orchestra . [ 7 ] Norman Reedus suffered a concussion on set while filming the episode after hitting his head, although the black-eye his character receives was already in the script prior to this happening. [ 8 ] Chandler Riggs , whose character, Carl Grimes , was killed off in season 8 , surprised the cast and crew on the last day of filming and can be seen in the background as a farmer toward the final scene at Hilltop. [ 9 ] The opening scene in the hospital was noted for its many visual connections to previous seasons: a walker uses a rock to break a glass door (" Guts "), Judith is protected in her hospital room by a stretcher (her father is saved in a similar way in " TS-19 "), and the Coalition gathers for a dinner as a family (a dream sequence seen in " The Day Will Come When You Won't Be "). [ 7 ] Production on the episode wrapped in April 2022 except for the scene featuring Rick and Michonne , which was filmed in August. The scene was written by Scott M. Gimple , who is the showrunner on their spin-off series, The Walking Dead: The Ones Who Live , and was shot over two days in Georgia . [ 3 ] The final moments of the episode features a montage of scenes from every prior season of the series that includes past cast members while a voice-over orbits around a single line: "We're the ones who live." While many of the voices uttering this mantra are spoken by characters already in season 11, such as Daryl and Maggie , several former actors recorded lines for the montage also. This includes the voices of former Walking Dead actors Michael Cudlitz ( Abraham ), Laurie Holden ( Andrea ), Lennie James ( Morgan ), Sonequa Martin-Green ( Sasha ), Chandler Riggs ( Carl ), and Steven Yeun ( Glenn ). [ 5 ] On its original airing, advertisements for Autodesk , Deloitte , DoorDash , Maximum Effort , and Ring were specifically designed to accompany the episode. The ads, jointly produced by AMC and Ryan Reynolds ' production company Maximum Effort, featured zombified versions of Walking Dead characters, including Milton Mamet ( Dallas Roberts ), Andrea ( Laurie Holden ), Rodney (Joe Ando-Hirsh) and Gareth ( Andrew J. West ). [ 10 ] Eleanor Matsuura 's baby bump is visible during her last scene as Yumiko following the one year time jump. Matsuura alluded that given the Commonwealth's healthcare and her brother, Yumiko may have received in vitro fertilization to have a baby with Magna ( Nadia Hilker ). [ 11 ] In Norman Reedus ' closing scene, episode director and special make-up effects artist Greg Nicotero makes a cameo as a walker stumbling along the road dressed in a striped shirt; Nicotero has portrayed a walker numerous times throughout the series. [ 12 ] Reception [ edit ] Critical [ edit ] The episode received generally positive reviews from critics. On the review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes , 67% of 21 critics' reviews are positive, with an average rating of 7.3/10. The website's consensus reads: " The Walking Dead finally shuffles off its mortal coil long past its peak, but this finale suffices as an emotionally satisfying sendoff." [ 13 ] Ratings [ edit ] The episode achieved a viewership of 2.27 million views in the United States on its original air date. [ 14 ] It marked the highest viewership of the season and was the highest-rated episode since " Home Sweet Home " on February 28, 2021. [ 15 ] References [ edit ] ^ Hansen, Renee (November 8, 2022). "When does the final episode of 'Walking Dead' air and what is the run time?" . Undead Walking . Retrieved November 22, 2022 . ^ Patten, Dominic (November 20, 2022). " 'The Walking Dead' Series Finale: EPs Angela Kang & Scott M. Gimple Talk Return of [Spoiler], "Intense" Conclusion & Those Spinoffs" . Deadline Hollywood . Retrieved November 22, 2022 . ^ a b Ross, Dalton (November 20, 2022). " 'The Walking Dead' finale ending with Rick and Michonne explained" . Entertainment Weekly . Retrieved November 22, 2022 . ^ Bonomolo, Cameron (February 25, 2024). " 'The Walking Dead: The Ones Who Live' Reveals What Happened to Rick Grimes" . ComicBook.com . Retrieved February 26, 2024 . ^ a b Al-Ghamdi, Abdullah (November 21, 2022). "More 'Walking Dead' Actors Returned For Series Finale Than You Realized" . Screen Rant . Retrieved December 5, 2022 . ^ "The Walking Dead: Season 11, Episode 24 Reviews" . Rotten Tomatoes . Retrieved November 22, 2022 . ^ a b Acuna, Kirsten (November 21, 2022). "28 details you may have missed on 'The Walking Dead' series finale" . Business Insider . Retrieved November 22, 2022 . ^ Acuna, Kirsten (March 16, 2022). "Norman Reedus 'suffered a concussion' on 'The Walking Dead' set as the series was filming its final episode" . Business Insider . Retrieved December 5, 2022 . ^ Ross, Dalton (November 20, 2022). "Chandler Riggs on his 'Walking Dead' finale cameo you didn't see" . Entertainment Weekly . Retrieved November 22, 2022 . ^ Hayes, Dade (November 21, 2022). " 'The Walking Dead' Finale Resurrects Dead Characters for Ads Produced by Ryan Reynolds' Maximum Effort and AMC Networks' Content Room, With Help from Kimmelot" . Deadline Hollywood . Retrieved November 22, 2022 . ^ Acuna, Kirsten (November 23, 2022). " 'The Walking Dead' star almost thought she was going to have her baby while they were making the series finale" . Business Insider . Retrieved December 5, 2022 . ^ Hansen, Renee (November 23, 2022). "Norman Reedus and Greg Nicotero fittingly end series together" . Undead Walking . Retrieved January 28, 2023 . ^ "The Walking Dead: Season 11, Episode 24" . Rotten Tomatoes . Retrieved November 22, 2022 . ^ Metcalf, Mitch (November 22, 2022). "ShowBuzzDaily's Sunday 11.20.2022 Top 150 Cable Originals & Network Finals Updated" . Showbuzz Daily . Retrieved November 22, 2022 . ^ Porter, Rick (November 22, 2022). "TV Ratings: 'Walking Dead' Gets Finale Bump, 'Yellowstone' Stays High" . The Hollywood Reporter . Retrieved November 22, 2022 . External links [ edit ] "Rest in Peace" at AMC "Rest in Peace" at IMDb v t e The Walking Dead episodes Season 1 " Days Gone Bye " " Guts " " Tell It to the Frogs " " Vatos " " Wildfire " " TS-19 " Season 2 " What Lies Ahead " " Bloodletting " " Save the Last One " " Cherokee Rose " " Chupacabra " " Secrets " " Pretty Much Dead Already " " Nebraska " " Triggerfinger " " 18 Miles Out " " Judge, Jury, Executioner " " Better Angels " " Beside the Dying Fire " Season 3 " Seed " " Sick " " Walk with Me " " Killer Within " " Say the Word " " Hounded " " When the Dead Come Knocking " " Made to Suffer " " The Suicide King " " Home " " I Ain't a Judas " " Clear " " Arrow on the Doorpost " " Prey " " This Sorrowful Life " " Welcome to the Tombs " Season 4 " 30 Days Without an Accident " " Infected " " Isolation " " Indifference " " Internment " " Live Bait " " Dead Weight " " Too Far Gone " " After " " Inmates " " Claimed " " Still " " Alone " " The Grove " " Us " " A " Season 5 " No Sanctuary " " Strangers " " Four Walls and a Roof " " Slabtown " " Self Help " " Consumed " " Crossed " " Coda " " What Happened and What's Going On " " Them " " The Distance " " Remember " " Forget " " Spend " " Try " " Conquer " Season 6 " First Time Again " " JSS " " Thank You " " Here's Not Here " " Now " " Always Accountable " " Heads Up " " Start to Finish " " No Way Out " " The Next World " " Knots Untie " " Not Tomorrow Yet " " The Same Boat " " Twice as Far " " East " " Last Day on Earth " Season 7 " The Day Will Come When You Won't Be " " The Well " " The Cell " " Service " " Go Getters " " Swear " " Sing Me a Song " " Hearts Still Beating " " Rock in the Road " " New Best Friends " " Hostiles and Calamities " " Say Yes " " Bury Me Here " " The Other Side " " Something They Need " " The First Day of the Rest of Your Life " Season 8 " Mercy " " The Damned " " Monsters " " Some Guy " " The Big Scary U " " The King, the Widow, and Rick " " Time for After " " How It's Gotta Be " " Honor " " The Lost and the Plunderers " " Dead or Alive Or " " The Key " " Do Not Send Us Astray " " Still Gotta Mean Something " " Worth " " Wrath " Season 9 " A New Beginning " " The Bridge " " Warning Signs " " The Obliged " " What Comes After " " Who Are You Now? " " Stradivarius " " Evolution " " Adaptation " " Omega " " Bounty " " Guardians " " Chokepoint " " Scars " " The Calm Before " " The Storm " Season 10 " Lines We Cross " " We Are the End of the World " " Ghosts " " Silence the Whisperers " " What It Always Is " " Bonds " " Open Your Eyes " " The World Before " " Squeeze " " Stalker " " Morning Star " " Walk with Us " " What We Become " " Look at the Flowers " " The Tower " " A Certain Doom " " Home Sweet Home " " Find Me " " One More " " Splinter " " Diverged " " Here's Negan " Season 11 " Acheron: Part I " " Acheron: Part II " " Hunted " " Rendition " " Out of the Ashes " " On the Inside " " Promises Broken " " For Blood " " No Other Way " " New Haunts " " Rogue Element " " The Lucky Ones " " Warlords " " The Rotten Core " " Trust " " Rest in Peace " Webisodes Torn Apart Cold Storage The Oath Red Machete Category Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Rest_in_Peace_(The_Walking_Dead)&oldid=1278348450 " Categories : 2022 American television episodes The Walking Dead (TV series) episodes 2020s American television series finales Hidden categories: Use American English from November 2022 All Wikipedia articles written in American English Use mdy dates from November 2022 Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Television episode articles with short description for single episodes Television episode articles with short description and disambiguated page names Pages using infobox television episode with unnecessary list markup Pages using multiple image with auto scaled images This page was last edited on 1 March 2025, at 22:40 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents Rest in Peace ( The Walking Dead ) 1 language Add topic