Oscars: 341 Feature Films Eligible to Compete × Skip to main content Plus Icon Click to expand the Mega Menu Click to expand search form Got a tip? The Hollywood Reporter homepage Newsletters Subscribe The Definitive Voice of Entertainment News Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter See My Options Sign Up site categories News Film TV Music Awards Lifestyle Business International Video Charts Lists Plus Icon Click to expand the Mega Menu Menu Click to expand search form The Hollywood Reporter homepage Read Next: Emmys: Netflix Doc ‘The Remarkable Life of Ibelin’ Submitted for Exceptional Merit Award (Exclusive) Subscribe The Definitive Voice of Entertainment News Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter See My Options Sign Up Home Movies Movie News Oscars: 341 Feature Films Eligible to Compete The number of films that have qualified for Academy Award consideration is up slightly from the 2016 total. By Gregg Kilday Plus Icon Gregg Kilday Freelance Contributor gkilday Follow Sign Up More Stories by Gregg Berlin Flashback: Richard Linklater and Ethan Hawke’s ‘Before Midnight’ Threepeat Berlin Flashback: When Timothée Chalamet Was a Complete Unknown at the Berlinale Berlin Flashback: When Tilda Swinton Presided Over the Berlinale View All December 19, 2017 2:19pm Share on Facebook Share on X Share to Flipboard Send an Email Show additional share options Share on LinkedIn Share on Pinterest Share on Reddit Share on Tumblr Share on Whats App Print the Article Post a Comment Christopher Polk/Getty Images Share on Facebook Share on X Share to Flipboard Send an Email Show additional share options Share on LinkedIn Share on Pinterest Share on Reddit Share on Tumblr Share on Whats App Print the Article Post a Comment While a few dozen films will command the lion’s share of the nominations when the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences announces its noms for the 90th Academy Awards on Jan. 23, there are actually 341 feature films that are eligible to compete for the best picture Oscar this year, the Academy announced Tuesday. The total number of eligible films is up slightly from 2016, when 336 qualified, and 2015, when 305 films were under consideration. The number reflects films that, given their theatrical runs, are eligible to compete in the best picture and other categories, but doesn’t include foreign films that are not having theatrical runs in Los Angeles in 2017. To be eligible, a feature film must open in a commercial motion picture theater in Los Angeles County by midnight, Dec. 31, beginning a minimum run of seven consecutive days. Under Academy rules, a feature-length motion picture must have a running time of more than 40 minutes and must have been exhibited theatrically on 35mm or 70mm film, or in a qualifying digital format. Feature films that receive their first public exhibition or distribution in any manner other than as a theatrical motion picture release are not eligible for Academy Awards in any category, although films that open theatrically the same day as they appear on streaming services like Netflix do qualify. A reminder list of productions eligible for the 90th Academy Awards is available at oscars .org/ oscars /rules-eligibility. The 90th Academy Awards will be held Sunday, March 4, at the Dolby Theatre at Hollywood & Highland Center and will be televised live on ABC. Read More About: Oscars Oscars 2017 THR Newsletters Sign up for THR news straight to your inbox every day Subscribe Sign Up More from The Hollywood Reporter The Weeknd Jenna Ortega Has Plans to Direct a Script She’s Worked on for 10 Years Rob Reiner Why Kathy Bates Was “Crushed” ‘Misery’ Director Cut Gruesome Detail From Stephen King’s Novel Heat Vision Box Office: ’Thunderbolts*’ to Kick Off Summer Season in Pivotal Moment for Marvel Studios Heat Vision ‘Thunderbolts*’: Julia Louis-Dreyfus and Geraldine Viswanathan Pitch a Hugh Jackman Run-In and Talk “Silly” ‘Seinfeld’ Curse Now You See Me Jesse Eisenberg Recruits New Magicians in ‘Now You See Me: Now You Don’t’ Trailer Terrence Howard Terrence Howard Turned Down Marvin Gaye Biopic Because He Didn’t Want to Kiss a Man: “I Would Cut My Lips Off” Shopping With THR Way Day Gets Extended: The 25 Best Deals From Kelly Clarkson’s Wayfair Line to Shawn Johnson’s Nashville Home By Erin Lassner Hollywood’s Top 15 Clean Beauty Picks Discounted for Credo’s Annual Sale By Erin Lassner The Best Luxury Gifts for Mother’s Day, From ‘Designer Cookies’ Loved by Emmy-Winning Stars to Amanda Seyfried’s Expensive-Smelling Hand Soaps By Danielle Directo-Meston Dyson’s Newest Smart Hair Tools Are On Sale for $100 — Where to Score the One-Day Beauty Deal By Danielle Directo-Meston , Erin Lassner THR Newsletters Sign up for THR news straight to your inbox every day Email Address Subscribe Today Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Most Popular ‘Andor’ Creator Explains That Shocking Assault Scene: “We’re All the Product of Rape” By James Hibberd Nikki Glaser Says Timothée Chalamet Almost Skipped Golden Globes Monologue So He Wouldn’t “Have to Deal” With Being Roasted: “I Get It” By Lexi Carson Lux Pascal Is a Proud Sister: “Pedro’s Taught Me There’s No Reason to Hide Who I Am” By Lily Ford Lar Park Lincoln, Actress in ‘Knots Landing’ and ‘Friday the 13th Part VII,’ Dies at 63 By Mike Barnes Harvey Weinstein’s Life Behind Bars: “He’s Still Running Sh**” (Exclusive) By Phoebe Eaton Must Reads Tina Fey on Her New Netflix Series: “It Saved Me From Just Shrinking Up Like a Little Granny Apple Head” By Mikey O'Connell No. 1 on the Call Sheet: Bella Ramsey Takes Charge of ‘The Last of Us’ By James Hibberd Justin Bieber’s Crisis of Faith? By Shirley Halperin The Definitive Voice of Entertainment News Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter SEE MY OPTIONS Sign Up PMC Logo Most Popular Bath & Body Works' Hand Soaps Just Hit Their Lowest Price of the Season — Stock Up for $3 Each Mary J. Blige Sued By Her Former Stylist, Misa Hylton, For $5 Million NFL Rookie Signing Bonuses Jump Record 26% for 2025 Draft 'Flattering' Portrait that Putin Gifted to Trump Last Month Finally Unveiled You may also like The Best Yoga Mats for Any Practice, According to Instructors 1 year ago 181 Fremont’s Grand Penthouse Redefines Urban Luxury 2 hours ago Michelle Obama Says Trump Administration’s Immigration Policies “Keep Her Up At Night” 2 hours ago Xavi se convierte en el compositor del año más joven en los Premios ASCAP 2025 1 hour ago Subscriber Support Get the Magazine Customer Service Back Issues E-edition Access The Hollywood Reporter About Us Media Kit Careers Contact Us Accessibility Legal Terms of Use Privacy Policy California Privacy Rights Privacy Preferences AdChoices Your Privacy Choices Follow Us Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram X X YouTube YouTube Newsletter Sign Up Sign Up Subscribe Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Have a Tip? Send us a tip using our anonymous form. Send Us a Tip Sign Up Icon Link Plus Icon The Hollywood Reporter is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2025 The Hollywood Reporter, LLC. All Rights Reserved. THE HOLLYWOOD REPORTER is a registered trademark of The Hollywood Reporter, LLC. Powered by WordPress.com VIP Our Sites Art in America Artforum Artnews ATX TV ATX TV Festival BGR Billboard BlogHer Deadline Flow Space Footwear News Gold Derby IndieWire LA3C Life is Beautiful Robb Report Rolling Stone SheKnows Soaps Sourcing Journal Sportico Spy StyleCaster The Hollywood Reporter TVLine Variety Vibe WWD Close the menu The Hollywood Reporter homepage News Expand news menu Latest News Culture & Politics LA Wildfires Obituaries LA/Local THR Investigates Film Expand film menu News Features Reviews Box Office Heat Vision TV Expand tv menu News Features Reviews Ratings Live Feed Heat Vision The Fien Print Music Expand music menu Grammys K-Corner Awards Expand awards menu News Awards Chatter Podcast Feinberg Forecast Behind The Screen The Race THR Presents Oscar Season Hub Lifestyle Expand lifestyle menu Person of Interest News Style Shopping Arts Real Estate Rambling Reporter Business Expand business menu THR, Esq Report Features Unions / Labor Film / TV Tax Credits Signings / Representation THR Charts Expand thr-charts menu Streaming Ratings Broadcast Ratings Weekend Box Office Chart More Essentials Expand more-essentials menu International News Video THR Podcasts Featured Voices Follow Us Follow THR on Facebook Follow THR on Instagram Follow THR on X Follow THR on YouTube Alerts & Newsletters Your Email Subscribe Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. optional screen reader About Us Advertise Careers Contact Us Icon Link Plus Icon The Hollywood Reporter is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2025 The Hollywood Reporter, LLC. All Rights Reserved. THE HOLLYWOOD REPORTER is a registered trademark of The Hollywood Reporter, LLC. ad