Reddit - The heart of the internet Skip to main content Open menu Open navigation Go to Reddit Home r/Oscars A chip A close button Get App Get the Reddit app Log In Log in to Reddit Expand user menu Open settings menu Go to Oscars r/Oscars r/Oscars The envelope please... A community to discuss the Academy Awards Members Online • Block-Busted Top 1% Commenter My updated analysis and takes on Best Animated Feature Oscar nominees and winner(s) of each year with nominees of 2024 included. Discussion Some of you might remember this thread of mine: https://old.reddit.com/r/Oscars/comments/1h4f4dt/my_amateurish_analysis_and_takes_on_best_animated/ I was talking about Best Animated Feature Oscar nominees and winners back then and I feel like it's time to update that with 2024 candidates added. Okay, let's begin again (no pun-intended): 2001: - Jimmy Neutron: Boy Genius - Monsters, Inc. - Shrek (Winner) Okay, so there are only 3 nominees that year, though at least they picked decent films since even Jimmy Neutron: Boy Genius got generally positive reviews overall. The winner that year was Shrek , and... I don't know how to feel about this. On one hand, there's no doubt that it's a great film, but on the other hand, is it truly better than Monsters, Inc. ? I feel like either of these wins would've made a lot of sense. Also, I would've added Atlantis: The Lost Empire (for its unique animation style) and Waking Life as extra nominees to fill in 5 spots in total. 2002: - Ice Age - Lilo & Stitch - Spirit: Stallion of the Cimarron - Spirited Away (Winner) - Treasure Planet So this looks like a pretty decent pool of nominees overall and I have no objection to any of these. As for the winner... yeah, Spirited Away was such a shoo-in. Let's be real, that was clearly THE best film out of 5. 2003: - Brother Bear - Finding Nemo (Winner) - The Triplets of Belleville Pretty lame list of nominees, if you ask me. I'm not sure what Brother Bear is even doing right there. I would've replaced that with Piglet's Big Movie , Sinbad: Legend of the Seven Seas , and Tokyo Godfathers - and yes, Piglet's Big Movie actually has better reception than Brother Bear . But even if the list of nominees were better, there was no way that Finding Nemo wouldn't win. I don't think anyone would dispute that. 2004: - The Incredibles (Winner) - Shark Tale - Shrek 2 I'm sorry, but this is an epic fail. Shark Tale as a nominee?! I would've taken that down and replaced it with Ghost in the Shell 2: Innocence , The Polar Express , and Team America: World Police . They may not be "great", but they're still better than Shark Tale . But just like last year, Pixar was going to win this very, Very, VERY easily since they had The Incredibles in their hands. In fact, in a just world, that would've EASILY won Best Picture Oscar, but because this world is terrible and unjust, it wasn't even nominated for it. Go figure. 2005: - Corpse Bride - Howl's Moving Castle - Wallace & Gromit: The Curse of the Were-Rabbit (Winner) Actually a pretty good list of nominees, if you ask me and having seen all three of these films, I can see how Wallace & Gromit: The Curse of the Were-Rabbit took the award that year. I would've also nominated Mind Game and Robots to fill in remaining 2 spaces. 2006: - Cars - Happy Feet (Winner) - Monster House 2006 was such a shitty year for animated films since none of these films were actually "acclaimed" including Happy Feet . I would've also nominated Paprika and A Scanner Darkly to fill in 2 spaces and give the Oscar to Paprika , but even that one is not exactly acclaimed given how it only has 87% on RottenTomatoes with 7.4/10 average - and that's the best-reviewed animated film of 2006. 2007: - Persepolis - Ratatouille (Winner) - Surf's Up Once again, another pretty good list of nominees, though I would've also added 5 Centimeters per Second and Beowulf , perhaps The Simpsons Movie instead, but this one is basically an extended TV episode even if the film itself is great. As for the winner... yeah, Ratatouille wins, without a single doubt. 2008: - Bolt - Kung Fu Panda - WALL-E (Winner) I would've added Horton Hears a Who! and Waltz with Bashir as nominees, but otherwise, I have no complaints. All of these are very good films and I don't think anyone would even dare to question WALL-E as the winner. In fact, that film should've actually won Best Picture Oscar, but again, because this world is terrible and unjust, The Reader somehow got nominated instead. 2009: - Coraline - Fantastic Mr. Fox - The Princess and the Frog - The Secret of Kells - Up (Winner) 2009 was one of the best years for animated films. Aside from these ones, we also had Cloudy with a Chance of Meatballs , Mary and Max , and Ponyo , so this really could've gone either way. And as for the winner, I know that a lot of you have different opinions, but yeah, I think I'll have to go with Up . I mean, it was pretty much game over right at the moment when the film was nominated for Best Picture Oscar as well. In fact, I think it should've even won that award and it would've happened in a just world. 2010: - How to Train Your Dragon - The Illusionist - Toy Story 3 (Winner) Kind of unfortunate that only 3 films got nominated in 2010 since I would've also added Despicable Me and Tangled as well, but what little they've nominated looks pretty good overall even though Toy Story 3 was an obvious winner that year. I mean, this even got nominated for Best Picture Oscar and should've easily won that award, but again, this world is terrible and unjust. 2011: - A Cat in Paris - Chico and Rita - Kung Fu Panda 2 - Puss in Boots - Rango (Winner) Due to some new regulations, The Adventures of Tintin wasn't even nominated for Best Animated Feature Oscar, which I find it to be a bullshit. I would've nominated that over Puss in Boots . Otherwise, this is a pretty strong-looking nominees, though I'm a bit surprised that Arthur Christmas didn't make the cut. I probably would've taken out A Cat in Paris and nominated that instead. Finally, as for the winner, I think Rango was a right call overall. I mean, Industrial Light & Magic did an excellent job with the animation. 2012: - Brave (Winner) - Frankenweenie - ParaNorman - The Pirates! Band of Misfits - Wreck-It Ralph These are all mainstream-level releases, but they still look pretty good overall and I have no complaints about these nominees. The winner, on the other hand, is a different story. Yeah, Brave was definitely the weakest of the bunch and I would've given the Oscar to Wreck-It Ralph instead. 2013: - The Croods - Despicable Me 2 - Ernest & Celestine - Frozen (Winner) - The Wind Rises I know that at least some of you are upset that The Wind Rises didn't win, but keep in mind, that film is strongly tied to Japan's controversial history and I kind of doubt that Academy Award would've wanted to risk PR nightmare that might've followed. So aside from that, I think Frozen was the right call, especially how it became such a cultural phenomenon for all the right reasons. The one issue that I actually DO have is The Croods . I'm sorry, how did that get nominated for Best Animated Feature Oscar over Monsters University ? 2014: - Big Hero 6 (Winner) - The Boxtrolls - How to Train Your Dragon 2 - Song of the Sea - The Tale of the Princess Kaguya Listen, I get it. I know that a lot of you guys are upset that The LEGO Movie wasn't even nominated for Best Animated Feature Oscar, but looking back, I'm not too surprised about this since that film has about half of its third act in live-action, so that might've gave Oscar judges some cold feet. I know that some of you guys are going to bring up WALL-E , but with that one, live-action scenes only appear in video footages, so it's still an almost entirely animated film. Also, it's easy to shit on Big Hero 6 for even winning Best Animated Feature over anything else, but I kind of get it. This one is probably the "safest" film to give an Oscar to since Song of the Sea was out of question (sadly) while How to Train Your Dragon 2 and The Tale of the Princess Kaguya have very somber tone. Yes, we've seen emotionally charged winners before, but the former has such a shockingly devastating moment that I did NOT expect to see in a mainstream animated film. Besides, having seen all of these nominees now, I seriously don't think that Big Hero 6 is the worst nominee in this list - The Boxtrolls is. In fact, I would've taken that out and nominated The Book of Life instead. 2015: - Anomalisa - Boy and the World - Inside Out (Winner) - Shaun the Sheep Movie - When Marnie Was There Yeah, this was a complete game over before it even began. There was no screwing way that any of the 4 nominees was going to beat Inside Out . In fact, in a just world, that film would've easily, Easily, EASILY won Best Picture Oscar, but, repeat after me - this world is terrible and unjust. I don't have any complaints about the list of nominees either and wouldn't have minded Shaun the Sheep Movie winning Best Animated Feature Oscar while Inside Out taking Best Picture, though I AM a bit surprised that The Peanuts Movie didn't get a nomination. 2016: - Kubo and the Two Strings - Moana - My Life as a Zucchini - The Red Turtle - Zootopia (Winner) 2016 was ANOTHER great year for animated films after 2009. I mean, just on a mainstream field, we had Kung Fu Panda 3 , the eventual winner that is Zootopia , Finding Dory , Kubo and the Two Strings , and Moana . You could fill in the list of nominees with just those ones and most people wouldn't complain. And look, I get it. Some of you guys are upset that Your Name wasn't nominated and believe that should've won instead, but let's be real - non-Ghilbi anime films always had a tough time in Academy Award and this is the year when Pixar couldn't make a/the cut even though they brought in what turned out to be a pretty solid animated film that is Finding Dory . If Pixar couldn't secure a nomination despite releasing a film that has 94% on RottenTomatoes with 7.7/10 average AND 77/100 on Metacritic, there was no chance that Your Name was going to make it. As for the actual winner... that's a tough question because while I DO think Zootopia was the right call, you could make a case for any other nominees like Moana and Kubo and the Two Strings . Let's just say that this was such a competitive year and leave it at that. 2017: - The Boss Baby - The Breadwinner - Coco (WInner) - Ferdinand - Loving Vincent Yeah, nothing was going to beat Coco that year. Even if A Silent Voice DID get nominated like some of you hoped, it was already another game over scenario similar to 2015. Having said that, this list of nominees SUCKS! I mean, The Boss Baby ?! What the FUCK were they thinking when they thought that mediocrity should've been nominated over The LEGO Batman Movie ??!!! But seriously, there is no way that The Boss Baby is even remotely better than The LEGO Batman Movie , not to mention that unlike The LEGO Movie , The LEGO Batman Movie is almost entirely animated, so this time, they have no excuse. Also, if they wanted to give a representation to DreamWorks Animation, Captain Underpants: The First Epic Movie was right there! They easily could've nominated that over The Boss Baby and no one would complain about that! In fact, this is what the list of nominees should've looked like: - The Breadwinner - Captain Underpants: The First Epic Movie - Coco (Winner) - The LEGO Batman Movie - Loving Vincent 2018: - Incredibles 2 - Isle of Dogs - Mirai - Ralph Breaks the Internet - Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse (Winner) This is another very good-looking list of nominees and I have no complaints overall. In fact, we can also celebrate the fact that Mirai became THE first non-Ghibli anime film to get nominated for Best Animated Feature Oscar. I have no complaint about the winner either since that should've been nominated for Best Picture Oscar too. In fact, given that Best Picture Oscar decision turned out to be heinous that year, I'd say that they should've taken out the eventual winner Green Book , Vice , and ESPECIALLY Bohemian Rhapsody and replaced them with First Man , Mission: Impossible - Fallout , and Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse . 2019: - How to Train Your Dragon: The Hidden World - I Lost My Body - Klaus - Missing Link - Toy Story 4 (Winner) Overall, a pretty strong list of nominees, but I'm not sure if there's a true standout. Even Klaus has 95% on RottenTomatoes with 7.7/10 average and 65/100 on Metacritic, so it's not exactly the "best-reviewed" animated film of that year either. Also, since I hate Netflix, I probably would've taken that out along with I Lost My Body and replace them with Frozen 2 and Weathering with You . 2020: - Onward - Over the Moon - A Shaun the Sheep Movie: Farmageddon - Soul (Winner) - Wolfwalkers This was a COVID-19 year, so I'm going to give direct-to-streaming films (a) pass(es). While it was obvious that either Soul or Wolfwalkers was going to win, I'm honestly surprised that Over the Moon got nominated, especially when they had The Willoughbys available. 2021: - Encanto (Winner) - Flee - Luca - The Mitchells vs. the Machines - Raya and the Last Dragon Again, a pretty strong list of nominees and I have no complaints. I know that some of you didn't like the fact that Belle didn't get nominated, but having seen it, that film left an egregious loose end during the climax, so I'm not complaining too much. If anything, I would've taken out Flee and nominated Belle in its place given that the former is a documentary film. As for the winner, with the caveat that I haven't seen The Mitchells vs. the Machines yet, I think Encanto was a right call. Besides, I don't like giving a direct-to-streaming films a voice at the award ceremony. 2022: - Marcel the Shell with Shoes On - Pinocchio (Winner) - Puss in Boots: The Last Wish - The Sea Beast - Turning Red First off, I'm kind of surprised that The Sea Beast got nominated. Maybe it's really that good, but I would've nominated The Bad Guys instead since I don't want a streaming platform getting more than one nominee. But what really caught me off guard is Marcel the Shell with Shoes On . I mean, doesn't that film have a lot of live-action scenes involved with the film entirely shot in live-action background? I'm not entirely sure if that would count as an animated film. Admittedly, I haven't seen it yet, but I remember The Adventures of Tintin not getting a nomination for some weird reason and this seems to be much closer to a live-action film than that. I probably would've nominated Inu-Oh just to avoid confusion. As for the winner, I wish I could say that Pinocchio was the right call, but since I hate Netflix, I would've picked Puss in Boots: The Last Wish as the winner instead. 2023: - The Boy and the Heron (Winner) - Elemental - Nimona - Robot Dreams - Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse I'm honestly not surprised that The Boy and the Heron became the winner since Elemental wasn't exactly the strongest Pixar entry, Nimona is a direct-to-streaming film, Robot Dreams is an independent animated film, and Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse doesn't have a complete story with such a blatant, Blatant, BLATANT cliffhanger ending. Also, The Boy and the Heron is the first Best Animated Feature Oscar winner to be rated anything other than G or PG. And speaking of Nimona , I'm pretty sure that it's an excellent film, but since I hate direct-to-streaming films getting nominated, I would've replaced that with Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Mutant Mayhem instead, especially COVID-19 was officially over that year. 2024: - Flow (Winner) - Inside Out 2 - Memoir of a Snail - Wallace & Gromit: Vengeance Most Fowl - The Wild Robot First thing first, I would've taken out Wallace & Gromit: Vengeance Most Fowl due to its dubious release strategy of getting a direct-to-television release in the United Kingdom and nominated something like, say Transformers One or The Colors Within instead - and that's without mentioning the fact that it pretty much behaves like a direct-to-Netflix release. And... yeah, I think it's safe to say that Flow winning Best Animated Feature Oscar is one massive milestone considering that this is the first time that the winner has absolutely zero big names attached to it whatsoever. Like, Pinocchio had Guillermo del Toro as one of the directors and The Boy and the Heron is from fricking Studio Ghibli whereas Flow is literally a low-budget independent film from Latvia. Now, did it deserve to win? Well... I certainly wouldn't say that it did NOT deserve to win since it was shaping up to be Flow vs. The Wild Robot anyway (especially after the former somehow started to get all sorts of attentions), though if I had to make a choice... I would've given Best Animated Feature to Inside Out 2 while Flow would take home Best International Feature Film. What about The Wild Robot ? Oh, that's easy - I would've easily picked THAT as the Best Picture Oscar winner of 2025 while throwing out Emilia Perez from nominees. Now the big question is, will this situation repeat in the future? Well... it's certainly possible, but I wouldn't say that it's 100% going to happen since I feel like one of the reasons why this won is because it was such an unusually universal film that somehow captured hearts of so many people worldwide and I think having no dialogue while being suitable enough for kids also helped. Seriously, this is practically a 4-quadrant independent film, which is pretty hard to come by. Keep in mind, while not necessarily the same situation, Parasite winning Best Picture Oscar didn't lead to a bunch of non-English films winning Best Picture starting from that moment. And before anyone asks, NO, I seriously doubt that Ne Zha 2 will be nominated for Best Animated Feature Oscar, let alone winning one. Furthermore, while this was probably not the biggest reason why Flow won, The Wild Robot DOES set up a sequel towards the end. Now, unlike Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse , it DOES have a proper ending, but it implies that the story will continue in The Wild Robot Escapes . Normally, this kind of ending wouldn't hurt the film's award chance as much, but since the sequel was officially announced, at least some voters might've decided to wait until The Wild Robot Escapes comes out and completes Roz's journey back to the island. In other words, they might've thought that Chris Sanders will get another chance while Gints Zilbalodis might not - and no, I don't think voters will wait until The Wild Robot Protects since that one is apparently its own separate story. So there you have it - my take on nominees and winners with candidates of 2024 added. I have no idea how 2025 might look, but I have a feeling that Wildwood and Zootopia 2 might be some of the biggest frontrunners assuming that they get enough critical acclaim. Oh well, we'll find out next year. Read more New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue with Email Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy . The envelope please... Public Anyone can view, post, and comment to this community Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Reddit, Inc. © 2025. All rights reserved. Expand Navigation Collapse Navigation &nbsp; &nbsp; TOPICS Internet Culture (Viral) Amazing Animals & Pets Cringe & Facepalm Funny Interesting Memes Oddly Satisfying Reddit Meta Wholesome & Heartwarming Games Action Games Adventure Games Esports Gaming Consoles & Gear Gaming News & Discussion Mobile Games Other Games Role-Playing Games Simulation Games Sports & Racing Games Strategy Games Tabletop Games Q&As Q&As Stories & Confessions Technology 3D Printing Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning Computers & Hardware Consumer Electronics DIY Electronics Programming Software & Apps Streaming Services Tech News & Discussion Virtual & Augmented Reality Pop Culture Celebrities Creators & Influencers Generations & Nostalgia Podcasts Streamers Tarot & Astrology Movies & TV Action Movies & Series Animated Movies & Series Comedy Movies & Series Crime, Mystery, & Thriller Movies & Series Documentary Movies & Series Drama Movies & Series Fantasy Movies & Series Horror Movies & Series Movie News & Discussion Reality TV Romance Movies & Series Sci-Fi Movies & Series Superhero Movies & Series TV News & Discussion RESOURCES About Reddit Advertise Reddit Pro BETA Help Blog Careers Press Communities Best of Reddit Topics