Highest Hopes for Trump on Immigration; Lowest, on Unity Notice: JavaScript is not enabled. Please Enable JavaScript Safely . skip to main content About Us Careers Contact Us Subscribe Workplace Advisory Our Expertise Employee Engagement & Experience Organizational Culture Leadership Development 2 Talent Identification & Hiring Customer Centricity Wellbeing 3 CliftonStrengths for Organizations AI Adoption Science of Teams View More Our Platform Gallup Access Platform Q12 Survey Employee Surveys CliftonStrengths About CliftonStrengths How Does CliftonStrengths Work? What Are the 34 Themes? What Are the 4 Domains? View More Reports Find the Right Report CliftonStrengths 34 CliftonStrengths Top 5 CliftonStrengths for Students View All Reports Coaching How to Become a Coach Courses for Coaches Find a Coach Quick Links Articles, Videos & More CliftonStrengths Insights Newsletter Podcast Leading With Strengths Research & Polling How We Help Clients Custom Survey Research Global Research U.S. Research Strategic Communications View More Our Research State of the Global Workplace Global Emotions World Happiness Global Leadership Global Safety Custom Research Partnerships Products & Insights Gallup Analytics Platform Gallup U.S. Pulse Public Data Sets Global Indicators Quick Links Latest News & Articles Polling Trends A-Z Our Research Impact Our Methodologies Federal Government Solutions Education Solutions Courses & Events Courses Gallup Global Strengths Coach Gallup Manager Program Engagement Champions View More Learning by Role Leaders & Managers HR Professionals Coaches Certification & Credits Gallup-Certified Strengths Coach Professional Credit Hours Quick Links Webinars & Events News & Insights 1 Gallup News Key findings and trends from 90+ years of public opinion polling. Workplace Insights Our latest analytics and advice on the key issues facing leaders. Global Indicators Employee Engagement Employee Retention & Attraction Leadership & Management Life Evaluation Index View More Newsletters Front Page CliftonStrengths Insights View More Quick Links Latest Reports & Perspectives Polling Trends A-Z Shop About Us Careers Contact Us Subscribe Gallup Workplace Advisory Our Expertise Employee Engagement & Experience Organizational Culture Leadership Development 2 Talent Identification & Hiring Customer Centricity Wellbeing 3 CliftonStrengths for Organizations AI Adoption Science of Teams View More Our Platform Gallup Access Platform Q12 Survey Employee Surveys CliftonStrengths About CliftonStrengths How Does CliftonStrengths Work? What Are the 34 Themes? What Are the 4 Domains? View More Reports Find the Right Report CliftonStrengths 34 CliftonStrengths Top 5 CliftonStrengths for Students View All Reports Coaching How to Become a Coach Courses for Coaches Find a Coach Quick Links Articles, Videos & More CliftonStrengths Insights Newsletter Podcast Leading With Strengths Research & Polling How We Help Clients Custom Survey Research Global Research U.S. Research Strategic Communications View More Our Research State of the Global Workplace Global Emotions World Happiness Global Leadership Global Safety Custom Research Partnerships Products & Insights Gallup Analytics Platform Gallup U.S. Pulse Public Data Sets Global Indicators Quick Links Latest News & Articles Polling Trends A-Z Our Research Impact Our Methodologies Federal Government Solutions Education Solutions Courses & Events Courses Gallup Global Strengths Coach Gallup Manager Program Engagement Champions View More Learning by Role Leaders & Managers HR Professionals Coaches Certification & Credits Gallup-Certified Strengths Coach Professional Credit Hours Quick Links Webinars & Events News & Insights 1 Gallup News Key findings and trends from 90+ years of public opinion polling. Workplace Insights Our latest analytics and advice on the key issues facing leaders. Global Indicators Employee Engagement Employee Retention & Attraction Leadership & Management Life Evaluation Index View More Newsletters Front Page CliftonStrengths Insights View More Quick Links Latest Reports & Perspectives Polling Trends A-Z Shop Search Toggle navigation Overview Politics Election 2024 Presidential Job Approval The Presidency Government Foreign Affairs View All Politics Economy Business Entrepreneurship Personal Finance Retirement Small Business View All Economy World Americas Asia Pacific Europe Middle East & North Africa Sub-Saharan Africa View All World Key Topics All Trends Abortion Alcohol & Drugs Education Guns Immigration LGBTQ+ Race Relations Religion Wellbeing Women & Gender Blogs & Opinion Polling Matters The Gallup Blog Chairman's Blog Gallup Vault Methodology Blog Media Resources Media Center Media Inquiries Methodology Center Center on Black Voices Gallup Reports Subscribe About Gallup and Our Services Access Log In Politics Highest Hopes for Trump on Immigration; Lowest, on Unity Share on LinkedIn Share on Twitter Share on Facebook Share via Email Print Share on LinkedIn Share on Twitter Share on Facebook Share via Email Print Politics January 2, 2025 Highest Hopes for Trump on Immigration; Lowest, on Unity Biggest change since 2016 is increased belief Trump will avoid war by Lydia Saad WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Americans have mixed expectations for what President-elect Donald Trump will accomplish in his second term, foreseeing success on seven policy goals while doubting he’ll achieve eight others. Expectations are highest that Trump will control illegal immigration, which 68% of U.S. adults predict he’ll do. Smaller majorities believe he will reduce unemployment, keep the country safe from terrorism, improve the economy, keep the country out of war, cut people’s taxes or reduce the crime rate. Conversely, majorities of Americans do not think Trump will heal political divisions in the country, improve the quality of the environment, improve the healthcare system, improve race relations, improve education, substantially reduce the federal budget deficit, improve conditions for minorities and the poor, or reduce the prices of groceries and other items. The public is less clear in its outlook for Trump’s presidency on two issues -- improving the way the federal government works and increasing respect for the U.S. abroad. About half believe he will -- or he won’t -- accomplish either goal. ###Embeddable### These results are from a Dec. 2-18 Gallup Poll in which 51% of Americans , slightly more than in December 2016, said they approve of the way Trump is handling the presidential transition. Partisanship strongly influences Americans’ expectations for Trump’s accomplishments in his upcoming term. Majorities of Republicans -- ranging from 66% to 99% -- are optimistic he will achieve each of the 17 goals measured. Majorities of Democrats are skeptical about Trump’s prospects on each. But a third or more are positive he’ll achieve a few of his top-ranking issues, particularly controlling illegal immigration. Independents’ outlook is similar to the national average on all issues. Trump II vs. Trump I Gallup also measured Americans’ expectations for Trump during the 2016 transition period , asking about 16 of the 17 issues rated today -- all but reducing prices. Far more Americans now than in 2016 believe Trump will keep the nation out of war, rising 17 percentage points to 55%. By contrast, in 2016, the majority (57%) doubted he would keep the country out of war. This shift likely reflects Trump’s claims that the Russia-Ukraine and Israel-Hamas wars would not have occurred had he been president, that he will end both quickly, and that he started “no new wars” in his first term. In addition, belief that he will control illegal immigration has increased nine points since 2016, and there has been an eight-point increase for reducing the crime rate and a six-point increase for improving race relations. Predictions for the latter still tilt negative, however. Americans are less sure today than in 2016 that Trump will improve national conditions in the areas of healthcare and education, with the optimistic percentages slipping 12 and 10 points, respectively. As a result, whereas majorities of Americans were hopeful about Trump on these issues in 2016, the opposite is true today. There has also been a six-point decline to 33% in Trump’s rating for healing political divisions in the country. Expectations for Trump in the other nine policy areas measured in both years haven’t changed materially. This includes the outlook for two goals Trump has prioritized by pledging to establish a department of government efficiency headed by American businessmen Elon Musk and Vivek Ramaswamy: improving the way the federal government works and reducing the federal budget deficit. ###Embeddable### Trump vs. Previous Presidents Gallup has measured Americans’ issue predictions during the transition period for all incoming presidents since Ronald Reagan in 1980, as well as for three presidents entering a second term: George W. Bush in January 2005, Barack Obama in 2012 and Trump in 2024. Given differences in the specific issues rated for each, along with the number of issues measured, it is not possible to say precisely which president or president-elect inspired the most optimism about his upcoming term. However, Obama in 2008 stands out for earning the highest scores of all other presidents on eight of the 11 issues for which comparisons to Trump are available. That is by far the largest proportion of record scores received by any incoming president among the ratings reviewed for this report. In the current poll, Trump earns the highest rating of incoming presidents on two issues -- controlling illegal immigration and reducing the crime rate. Other incoming or returning presidents, including Trump in 2016, had the top score on no more than one issue: George H.W. Bush in 1988 had the highest of five presidential measurements for keeping the nation out of war (70%). Confidence in 1992 that Bill Clinton would improve the healthcare system (64%) tied for first with Obama’s 2008 score. Gallup has asked the healthcare item about all presidents since Clinton. Before starting his second term in 2005, George W. Bush earned the highest score of all incoming and returning presidents since 9/11 for keeping the U.S. safe from terrorism (68%). Joe Biden’s 54% score in 2020 for improving race relations exceeds Trump’s in 2016 and 2024, as well as G.W. Bush’s in 2001. The item was not asked about Reagan, Clinton, G.H.W. Bush or Obama. The 46% of Americans in 2016 expecting Trump to substantially reduce the budget deficit effectively ties his 45% rating in 2024, but exceeds six other presidential ratings taken since Bush in 1988, most by a healthy margin. ###Embeddable### See the accompanying PDF for the full issue-outlook trends for Trump and all prior presidents, plus detailed tabulations showing results by party ID and other subgroups for Trump’s current ratings. Bottom Line Americans have a modest outlook for what the second Trump administration might achieve, predicting success in about as many areas as they doubt it will occur. Still, they have notably high expectations for him with respect to controlling illegal immigration and reducing crime -- both relative to their expectations for him on other issues and historically. More Americans anticipate he’ll succeed in these domains than did so for any other evaluated president. And although confidence in Trump's ability to keep the nation out of war is not as pronounced as confidence in him on several other objectives, the sharp increase in Americans believing he’ll prevail in this could be important to fulfilling expectations for his second term. Achieving one's goals may be the straight path to a strong presidential legacy, but making progress in areas where it is least expected could also have an impact. In this regard, improving national conditions in education, healthcare, the environment, race relations and public unity could serve as key objectives for Trump's second term. To stay up to date with the latest Gallup News insights and updates, follow us on X @Gallup . Learn more about how the Gallup Poll Social Series works. View complete question responses and trends (PDF download) . ###Embeddable### Survey Methods Results for this Gallup poll are based on telephone interviews conducted by ReconMR Dec. 2-18, 2024, with a random sample of 1,003 adults, aged 18 and older, living in all 50 U.S. states and the District of Columbia. For results based on this sample of national adults, the margin of sampling error is ±4 percentage points at the 95% confidence level. All reported margins of sampling error include computed design effects for weighting. Each sample of national adults includes a minimum quota of 80% cellphone respondents and 20% landline respondents, with additional minimum quotas by time zone within region. Landline and cellular telephone numbers are selected using random-digit-dial methods. In addition to sampling error, question wording and practical difficulties in conducting surveys can introduce error or bias into the findings of public opinion polls. Subscribe to the Front Page newsletter for weekly insights on the world's most pressing topics. ( * ) Required * Email Address * Country or Region Select One United States of America Afghanistan Aland Islands Albania Algeria American Samoa Andorra Angola Anguilla Antarctica Antigua and Barbuda Argentina Armenia Aruba Australia Austria Azerbaijan Bahamas Bahrain Bangladesh Barbados Belarus Belgium Belize Benin Bermuda Bhutan Bolivia (Plurinational State of) Bonaire, Sint Eustatius and Saba Bosnia and Herzegovina Botswana Bouvet Island Brazil British Indian Ocean Territory (the) Brunei Darussalam Bulgaria Burkina Faso Burundi Cambodia Cameroon Canada Cape Verde Cayman Islands (the) Central African Republic Chad Chile China Christmas Island Cocos (Keeling) Islands (the) Colombia Comoros Congo (Kinshasa) Congo Brazzaville Cook Islands (the) Costa Rica Cote d'Ivoire Croatia Cuba Cyprus Czech Republic Democratic People's Republic of Korea Denmark Djibouti Dominica Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt El Salvador Equatorial Guinea Eritrea Estonia Ethiopia Falkland Islands (the) [Malvinas] Faroe Islands Federated States of Micronesia Fiji Finland France French Guiana French Polynesia French Southern Territories (the) Gabon Gambia Georgia Germany Ghana Gibraltar Greece Greenland Grenada Guadeloupe Guam Guatemala Guinea Guinea-Bissau Guyana Haiti Heard Island and McDonald Islands Holy See Honduras Hong Kong S.A.R. of China Hungary Iceland India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Isle of Man Israel Italy Jamaica Japan Jersey Jordan Kazakhstan Kenya Kiribati Kuwait Kyrgyzstan Lao People's Democratic Republic Latvia Lebanon Lesotho Liberia Libya Liechtenstein Lithuania Luxembourg Macao S.A.R. of China Madagascar Malawi Malaysia Maldives Mali Malta Marshall Islands Martinique Mauritania Mauritius Mayotte Mexico Moldova Monaco Mongolia Montenegro Montserrat Morocco Mozambique Myanmar Namibia Nauru Nepal Netherlands (Kingdom of the) New Caledonia New Zealand Nicaragua Niger Nigeria Niue Norfolk Island North Macedonia Northern Mariana Islands Norway Oman Pakistan Palau Palestinian Territories Panama Papua New Guinea Paraguay Peru Philippines Pitcairn Poland Portugal Puerto Rico Qatar Reunion Romania Russia Rwanda Saint Barthélemy Saint Kitts and Nevis Saint Lucia Saint Martin (French part) Saint Pierre and Miquelon Saint Vincent and the Grenadines Samoa San Marino Sao Tome and Principe Saudi Arabia Senegal Serbia Seychelles Sierra Leone Singapore Sint Maarten (Dutch part) Slovakia Slovenia Solomon Islands Somalia South Africa South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands South Korea South Sudan Spain Sri Lanka Sudan Suriname Svalbard and Jan Mayen Swaziland Sweden Switzerland Syria Taiwan (Province of China) Tajikistan Tanzania Thailand Timor-Leste Togo Tokelau Tonga Trinidad and Tobago Tunisia Türkiye Turkmenistan Turks and Caicos Islands Tuvalu Uganda Ukraine United Arab Emirates United Kingdom United States Minor Outlying Islands Uruguay Uzbekistan Vanuatu Venezuela Vietnam Virgin Islands, British Virgin Islands, U.S. Wallis and Futuna Western Sahara Yemen Zambia Zimbabwe * This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Related Topics Include: USA All Gallup Headlines Government Government and Politics Politics The Presidency Access Crucial Data for Your Research Search, examine, compare and export nearly a century of primary data. Learn More about Access Crucial Data for Your Research Recommended Politics Dec 27, 2024 Trump Transition Ratings Better the Second Time Around A slim majority of U.S. adults approve of the way Donald Trump is handling his presidential transition, but more rate his Cabinet picks negatively than positively. Politics Dec 23, 2024 Americans' Ratings of Biden and U.S. Tepid but Steady Americans close out the year disapproving of Biden and Congress and feeling largely dissatisfied with the direction of the country. Politics Nov 26, 2024 Postelection: Economic Confidence Up; Biden Ratings Down After the election, Americans' confidence in the economy has improved, while fewer approve of Joe Biden's performance and are satisfied with the state of the nation. Gallup Blog Dec 19, 2024 20 Gallup Trends to Watch in 2025 Keep up with how Americans react to the Trump administration and how society evolves with key Gallup trends. January 2, 2025 Gallup  https://news.gallup.com/poll/654746/highest-hopes-trump-immigration-lowest-unity.aspx Gallup World Headquarters, 901 F Street, Washington, D.C., 20001, U.S.A +1 202.715.3030 Gallup LinkedIn Twitter Instagram Facebook YouTube Methodology Center Senior Scientists Trends A-Z George Gallup About Us Careers Locations News Store Media Center Gallup Speakers Customer Support Contact Us Subscribe to Our Latest Insights Sign Up Copyright © 2025 Gallup, Inc. All rights reserved. Cookie Preferences Privacy Statement Legal Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information California Collection Notice