7 Important Takeaways From Tesla's Q2 2020 Earnings Call 7 Important Takeaways From Tesla's Q2 2020 Earnings Call News News Critical Materials Official Charging Technology Industry All news Reviews Car Reviews First Drives Test Drives Comparisons Tech Review Range Test All reviews Features Podcast Features 2024 Breakthrough Awards Opinion Power Moves EV 101 All Features Videos Podcasts Photos Newsletter SIGN UP FOR FREE Chime in with article commenting. Sign In Sign Up News News Critical Materials Official Charging Technology Industry All news Reviews Car Reviews First Drives Test Drives Comparisons Tech Review Range Test All reviews Features Podcast Features 2024 Breakthrough Awards Opinion Power Moves EV 101 All Features Videos Podcasts Photos Newsletter page ad skin Home Tesla News 7 Important Takeaways From Tesla's Q2 2020 Earnings Call The news was full of positives for Tesla yesterday, and the future looks even better. EVANNEX By : EVANNEX Jul 23, 2020 at 8:39am ET Facebook X LinkedIn Flipboard Reddit WhatsApp E-Mail Share Comment This article comes to us courtesy of EVANNEX , which makes and sells aftermarket Tesla accessories. The opinions expressed therein are not necessarily our own at InsideEVs, nor have we been paid by EVANNEX to publish these articles. We find the company's perspective as an aftermarket supplier of Tesla accessories interesting and are willing to share its content free of charge. Enjoy! Related Stories: Tesla Q2 2020 Earnings Report: Profitable Yet Again Posted on EVANNEX on July 23, 2020 by Matt Pressman Did Tesla's Q2 earnings mark a critical moment in automotive history?  Is this the beginning of an auto industry upheaval? One chart (scroll below) is definitely telling. Yes, the drama and dichotomy of Elon Musk was on full display last night. He had plenty of swagger, proud of the team's "hardcore engineering" efforts. Yet, discussing Tesla Insurance, he geeked out for those "great at math" revealing, "we want revolutionary actuaries." Above: Tesla's Model Y (Source: EVANNEX; Photo by Casey Murphy) Okay, so what were the key highlights on Tesla's Q2 investor conference call last night? Here's what I found to be the 7 most fascinating takeaways... 1. INDUSTRY DOWN, TESLA UP According to Musk , "although the automotive industry was down about 30% year-over-year in the first half of the year, we managed to grow deliveries in the first half of the year. So despite that massive industry decline, we actually went up." Even in the face of this unprecedented global pandemic, Tesla's CFO, Zachary Kirkhorn, said he "couldn't be more impressed" with the company's "resiliency" and the team's hard work. Above: For the first half of 2020, Tesla is up in global vehicle deliveries while the rest of the industry is down (Source: Tesla ) 2. MUSK THREW DOWN THE GAUNTLET When it comes to range , Musk issued an industry challenge: 300 miles of range is mandatory. He explained, "I think the new normal for range is going to be, just in U.S. EPA terms, approximately 300 miles. So, I think people will really come to expect that, as some number close to 300 miles [becomes] normal. That's a standard expectation because you do need to take into account, like, is it very hot outside or very cold? Or are you driving up into a mountain with a full load? And it's — people don't want to have to get to [their] destination with like 10 miles of range." Above: Tesla's range continues to outshine the competition — Tesla's Model S is nearly double the range of Porsche's Taycan (Source: Tesla ) 3. COMPACT CAR AND 'HIGHER CAPACITY' BUS? Following up on earlier hints about a compact hatchback , Musk said, "the thing that bugs me the most about where we are right now is that our cars are not affordable enough. We need to fix that... and make the cars as affordable as possible." He elaborated, "it would be reasonable to assume that we would make a compact vehicle of some kind and probably a higher capacity vehicle of some kind. These are likely things at some point... I think we'll do the obvious things." Above: Illustration of a compact Tesla hatchback posted by Tesla China along with job postings for the Shanghai Tesla Design Center (Source: Tesla China ) 4. EVERYTHING'S BIGGER IN TEXAS Tesla chose Texas for it's next Gigafactory. The location is about 15 minutes from downtown Austin. It will be their biggest yet — focused on production of the Cybertruck , Semi , and Model Y . Musk said it will be an "ecological paradise" open to the public. He added, "it's about 2,000 acres, and we're going to make it a factory that is going to be stunning. It's right on the Colorado River... [with] a boardwalk where there'll a hiking and biking trail." Above: The 'New US Factory' is in Texas and it's poised to be a critical part of Tesla's future growth (Source: Tesla ) 5. 'WE LOVE MANUFACTURING' According to Musk, "we bring a massive amount of effort into manufacturing engineering, the machine that makes the machine ... [and] I just want to be clear, at Tesla, we love manufacturing. It's awesome. And I really think more smart people should be working on manufacturing." He continued, "there's far more opportunity for innovation in manufacturing than in the products itself... So the long-term sustainable advantage of Tesla, I think, will be manufacturing." Above: A look at Tesla's massive Model Y stamping press in the company's Shanghai Gigafactory (Source: Tesla ) 6. TESLA BEAT THE STREET Bloomberg reports , "optimism about its dominant EV market share and capacity expansion at home and abroad, Tesla’s massive stock gain has vaulted it into the pole position among global automakers." Wall Street was impressed. "Tesla reported a profit of 50 cents a share on a GAAP basis Wednesday, beating analysts’ consensus estimate for a loss of $1.06 a share... [Revenue reached] $6.04 billion, topping analysts’ expectations for $5.4 billion." Above: A look at the numbers (YouTube: CNBC Television ) 7. THE FUTURE AHEAD "Just think about the next 12 to 18 months, we'll have 3 new factories in place. Things are looking great with Giga Berlin, and we'll have Cybertruck, Semi, Roadster... and then, of course, there's Battery Day, which is coming up pretty soon," Musk explained. At the end of the call, he concluded, "I’ve never been more excited or optimistic about Tesla in the history of the company.” Hmmm, is S&P 500 inclusion coming ? === Source: Tesla , Bloomberg , CNBC Television Source: Evannex Share this Story Facebook X LinkedIn Flipboard Reddit WhatsApp E-Mail Got a tip for us? Email: tips@insideevs.com Join the conversation ( ) Trending The Telo MT1 May Be Tiny, But It's Still Built For Hard Work Foxconn's Model C Is Coming To The U.S.—But It Won't Wear A Foxconn Badge Slate Unveiled A Cheap EV. Tesla's Is Still A Mystery. Why The Slate Truck Doesn’t Use LFP Batteries latest articles Toyota And Google's Waymo May Build An Autonomous Car Platform Together 34m ago - Autonomous Vehicles - GM’s Orion Plant Was Supposed To Be All-EV. Now, Maybe Not 4h ago - News - How The Lucid Gravity Became A Fast-Charging Monster 6h ago - Charging - Nissan's Turnaround Plan Almost Convinced Me. Then The Bomb Dropped. 6h ago - Power Moves - I Bought A 'Unicorn' Volvo V90 PHEV. Here's How It's Going 7h ago - Ownership Experience - RECOMMENDED FOR YOU Tesla Ditches China's Biggest Auto Show While EV Rivals Shine Instead Toyota And Google's Waymo May Build An Autonomous Car Platform Together Trump To Reduce Automotive Tariffs Days Before Hike GM’s Orion Plant Was Supposed To Be All-EV. Now, Maybe Not The State Of New York Is Picking A Really Dumb Fight With Tesla How The Lucid Gravity Became A Fast-Charging Monster Tesla Might Be Tanking, But Its Cars Are Still Fast Subscribe to our Newsletter Receive exciting Automotive news, updates, and special offers straight to your inbox. Subscribe Follow Us Facebook X Flipboard Google News YouTube RSS About Us Advertising Contact insideEVs 650 Madison Avenue New York, NY 10022 USA Privacy policy Cookie policy Cookie Settings Terms of use © 2025 Motorsport Network. All rights reserved. Logotype News All news News Critical Materials Official Charging Technology Industry Reviews All reviews Car Reviews First Drives Test Drives Comparisons Tech Review Range Test Features All Features Podcast Features 2024 Breakthrough Awards Opinion Power Moves EV 101 Makes All Makes Abarth Acura Afeela Aptera Aston Martin Audi Automobili Pininfarina BMW Bollinger Buick BYD Byton Cadillac Chevrolet Chrysler Citroën Cupra Dacia Daimler Dodge DS Faraday Future Ferrari Fiat Fisker Ford GAC Geely General Motors Genesis GMC Honda Hyundai Infiniti Jaguar Jeep Karma Kia Koenigsegg Land Rover Lexus Lincoln Lordstown Motors Lotus Lucid Lynk & Co MAN Maserati Mazda Mercedes-AMG Mercedes-Benz MG Mini Mitsubishi NEVS Nikola Motor NIO Nissan Opel Peugeot Pininfarina Polestar Porsche Ram Renault Rimac Rivian Rolls-Royce Scout Motors SEAT Skoda Smart Stellantis Subaru Suzuki Telo Trucks Tesla TOGG Toyota Uaz VinFast Volkswagen Volvo Workhorse Xiaomi Xpeng Zeekr Models Tesla Model Y Hyundai Ioniq 5 Rivian R1S Toyota bZ4X Lucid Gravity Ram Ramcharger Body Style All Body Styles Sedan Coupe SUV/Crossover Hatchback Truck Convertible Videos Podcast Photos Edition USA / Global Switch Theme Light Dark Auto Current Edition USA / Global Edition: USA / Global Édition: France Edizione: Italia Edição: Brasil Ausgabe: Deutschland Edisyon: Türkiye Edition: Argentina Cancel SIGN UP FOR FREE Chime in with article commenting. Sign In Sign Up