The Crown season 5 premiere: Imelda Staunton honours Queen in pearls | Metro News Metro logo Search Metro Search Metro Close Search Close Search Open Site Menu Open Site Menu Close Site Menu Close Site Menu Small logo News Expand News Submenu Expand News Submenu UK London US World Crime Tech Science Politics News Updates newsletter E-edition Entertainment Expand Entertainment Submenu Expand Entertainment Submenu Showbiz TV Film Music Gaming Celebrity Big Brother Sport Expand Sport Submenu Expand Sport Submenu Football Premier League Transfer News Cricket Boxing Tennis Snooker Lifestyle Expand Lifestyle Submenu Expand Lifestyle Submenu Sex Health Property Food Travel Horoscopes Money Shopping Lifeline The Slice newsletter Soaps Expand Soaps Submenu Expand Soaps Submenu EastEnders Emmerdale Coronation Street Hollyoaks Soaps Showbiz Soaps Newsletter Opinion Expand Opinion Submenu Expand Opinion Submenu Columnists Letters Cartoons Shopping Expand Shopping Submenu Expand Shopping Submenu Beauty Products Black Friday Amazon Prime Day Shopping Newsletter Newsletters Expand Newsletters Submenu Expand Newsletters Submenu Daily Horoscope The Getaway News Updates Soaps Updates The Slice newsletter Game Central Puzzles Expand Puzzles Submenu Expand Puzzles Submenu Quick Crossword Cryptic Crossword Word Wheel Hangman Easy Sudoku Medium Sudoku Hard Sudoku Money Expand Money Submenu Expand Money Submenu Cost of Living Deals Hacks Saving Property Expand Property Submenu Expand Property Submenu What I Rent What I Own Property Prices Home renovations Interiors Renting Better Living The Key Newsletter Travel Expand Travel Submenu Expand Travel Submenu Travel Advice Travel Reviews Travel Inspiration The Getaway Horoscopes Expand Horoscopes Submenu Expand Horoscopes Submenu Your Daily Horoscope Astrology Tarot Chinese Zodiac Daily Horoscope Newsletter More Expand More Submenu Expand More Submenu Video Games Submit Stuff Competitions Advertise Weather Trending Privacy Policy Metro on Instagram Metro on Facebook Metro on X Metro on TikTok Imelda Staunton subtly pays tribute to Queen by wearing pearls to The Crown season 5 premiere Cydney Yeates Published November 8, 2022 7:49pm Updated November 8, 2022 8:58pm Share this article via whatsapp Share this article via x Copy the link to this article. Link is copied Share this article via facebook Share this article Share this with Close Share this article via messenger. Share this article via email. Share this article via flipboard. Comment now Comments Imelda Staunton paid tribute to the Queen by wearing pearls for The Crown’s season 5 world premiere (Picture: Getty) The Crown ’s Imelda Staunton honoured the late Queen Elizabeth II at the world premiere for the forthcoming fifth season by wearing her favourite jewellery, pearls. The actress, who portrays the monarch in the new series, taking over the reins from Olivia Colman,  stepped onto the red carpet at the Theatre Royal Drury Lane wearing a pair of earrings and a ring that featured the glistening gemstone. Dressed in a custom Huntsman Savile Row smart black tailored suit with an uneven black tie, Staunton accessorised her suave look with TASAKI jewellery, the Japanese designer famous for its pearls. She opted for a pair of earrings and a ring from the Balance Neo Diamonds Pave collection, featuring Akoya pearls and diamonds. The accessories are a modern take and a nod to the Queen’s most admired jewel. Staunton’s stylist revealed that he ‘put the look together as a nod to her role in the TV show and that is why we opted for the pearls and British tailoring’. A very touching tribute! Staunton wore a pair of earrings and a ring from TASAKI (Picture: Wire Image) The actress looked dapper in a custom Huntsman Savile Row smart black tailored suit (Picture: Getty) The Queen was often photographed wearing pearl necklaces during her lifetime. Her parents gifted her a pearl necklace as a young girl, before she went on to receive a full necklace for their coronation in 1937. Her majesty also wore the gems on her wedding day to Prince Philip and other grand occasions throughout her rein. The Queen’s favourite jewellery was pearls (Picture: Getty) Staunton recently revealed she was overwhelmed with grief after the news broke that the Queen had died. Queen Elizabeth II died aged 96 on September 8, with the nation going into a period of mourning for two weeks before she was laid to rest in a state funeral. Staunton wasn’t aware of the news until she returned home from filming. ‘I’m afraid that night I was inconsolable,’ she recalled. ‘I was very glad I wasn’t due to be working the next day. They couldn’t have filmed on this face.’ As luck would have it, Staunton had a pre-scheduled two-week break from filming and returned to The Crown one day after the funeral. Staunton posed with her co-stars Elizabeth Debicki, Dominic West, and Jonathan Pryce (Picture: Wire Image) ‘It’s been strange,’ she noted in conversation with Radio Times. ‘There’s no doubt I’ve got a different perspective. The outpouring of grief took me by surprise and might not have been so acute for me, had I not been playing her. ‘But she was exemplary in the execution of her duty. To have someone like that – a woman like that – is wonderful. ‘As a young girl she said, “Until the day I die, I will do my duty,” and she did, which is very powerful.’ More Trending Queen Elizabeth II still the most popular royal figure three years since her death Channel: UK UK April 15, 2025 By Josh Layton Amazon Prime fans have days to binge ‘best sci-fi series in years’ Netflix smash hit racks up 32,900,000 views and a 100% Rotten Tomatoes score Doctor Who is fixing its biggest mistake – but it might be too late Speaking to Metro.co.uk, Staunton made sure to contain her feelings regarding the Queen’s death before going back to film. ‘Whatever I feel about it shouldn’t spill onto the set at all or into our story,’ she shared. ‘I had a gap in filming after she died, and I was grateful for that and so you regroup and you carry on with the series.’ Deals of the Day Save £300 on the 'Ferrari of lawn mowers' that gardeners are calling 'unbelievable' £30,000,000 designer outlet shopping centre to open in 'charming' UK town Think you know your bra size? This lingerie pro says you’re probably wrong I visited the UK's biggest Tesco with Costco-style bulk buys and its very own Greggs Top 6 items any first-time buyer should have on their shopping list chosen by an expert View More » The Crown season 5 arrives on Wednesday, November 9, on Netflix. Got a story? If you’ve got a celebrity story, video or pictures get in touch with the Metro.co.uk entertainment team by emailing us celebtips@metro.co.uk, calling 020 3615 2145 or by visiting our Submit Stuff page – we’d love to hear from you. TV Newsletter Sign up and tell us which TV shows you love to watch to get personalised updates every morning. Email I agree to receive newsletters from Metro I agree to receive newsletters from Metro Sign Up Sign Up This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Your information will be used in line with our Privacy Policy Home divider Entertainment divider TV Related topics Imelda Staunton Queen Elizabeth II The Crown Share this article via whatsapp Share this article via x Copy the link to this article. Link is copied Share this article via facebook Share this article Share this with Close Share this article via messenger. Share this article via email. Share this article via flipboard. Comment now Comments Play Video After Adolescence, Amanda Holden’s dating show comes at the perfect time Channel: TV TV 5 hours ago By Adam Miller Play Video Molly-Mae Hague confronted by sister over Tommy Fury relationship after 'problems' Channel: TV TV 7 hours ago By Meghna Amin Must Read Hugh Grant slams controversial rules at his kids’ ‘ridiculous posh private schools' Channel: Showbiz Showbiz 5 days ago By Rebecca Sayce Play Video Celebrity Big Brother fans 'enraged' as Jack P. Shepherd's win breaks historic tradition Channel: TV TV 12 hours ago By Meghna Amin Child star Sophie Nyweide was pregnant when she died aged 24 Channel: Showbiz Showbiz 6 days ago By Kitty Chrisp Play Video JoJo Siwa told dumped partner she wanted to 'marry them' before Celebrity Big Brother Channel: TV TV 3 days ago By Kitty Chrisp Emma Willis reveals surgery after finding a 'hole in her heart' Channel: Showbiz Showbiz 6 days ago By Laura Harman Black Eyed Peas star left stage 'minutes' before car ramming attack at Vancouver festival Channel: Showbiz Showbiz 2 days ago By Emily Bashforth Former child star Sophie Nyweide dies aged 24 Channel: Showbiz Showbiz 7 days ago By Laura Harman The sad truth about Olly Murs' before and after pics Channel: Showbiz Showbiz 14 hours ago By Em Clarkson How celebrities fared in London Marathon — Joel Dommett fainting to Adele Roberts' record Channel: Showbiz Showbiz 2 days ago By Emily Bashforth Netflix fans have just hours to binge 'funniest British TV show ever' Channel: TV TV 6 days ago By Tom Percival Trending Now Read more stories Read more stories Amazon Prime fans have days to binge ‘best sci-fi series in years’ Channel: TV TV 2 days ago By Alistair McGeorge Netflix smash hit racks up 32,900,000 views and a 100% Rotten Tomatoes score Doctor Who is fixing its biggest mistake – but it might be too late The sad truth about Olly Murs' before and after pics Former wrestling world champion, 43, has ‘no desire to wrestle’ again Metro Shorts Metro logo © 2025 Associated Newspapers Limited Powered by WordPress.com VIP Your ad choices IPSO Regulated Contributors Newzit Daily Mail Discount codes about us Discount codes FAQ Terms and Conditions Privacy Policy Do not sell or share my personal information Site map Contact Us About Metro on Instagram Metro on Facebook Metro on X Metro on TikTok Close Overlay TV Newsletter Sign up and tell us which TV shows you love to watch to get personalised updates every morning. Email I agree to receive newsletters from Metro I agree to receive newsletters from Metro Sign Up Sign Up This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Your information will be used in line with our Privacy Policy