And the Winner Is... Baltimore County's Brianna Ross Named Maryland Teacher of the Year – Conduit Street Skip to content Home Blog About Staff Disclaimer MACo Website Links Home Blog About Staff Disclaimer MACo Website Links Search Facebook Twitter And the Winner Is… Baltimore County’s Brianna Ross Named Maryland Teacher of the Year Post author: Brianna January Post published: October 8, 2021 Post category: Education On October 7, the Maryland State Board of Education (MSDE) announced Baltimore County middle school teacher Brianna Ross as the 2021-2022 Maryland Teacher of the Year. Last night was the 31st celebration of the Maryland Teacher of the Year program recognizing exemplary elementary, middle, and high school teachers who are excellent instructors and education leaders in their schools and communities. Ross, a social studies teacher at Deer Park Middle Magnet School, was honored as the statewide Teacher of the Year. Ross was chosen from a slate of eight finalists . From an MSDE press release : “We know that the most important school-based factor in a student’s success is the educator in front of the classroom each day. Teachers profoundly impact the positive trajectory of students’ lives, and we must recognize and support our teachers, who bring their skills, passion, and commitment to classrooms across Maryland,” said State Superintendent Mohammed Choudhury. “On behalf of the Maryland State Department of Education, I recognize all of our great teachers across the State, our 24 local Teachers of the Year, our finalists, and our Maryland Teacher of the Year Briana Ross. Ms. Ross inspires and encourages her students to think critically and creatively.  She is a teacher committed to bringing success and opportunity to every one of her students.” … Finalists were selected by a panel of judges from key Maryland education organizations representing principals, teachers, retired school personnel, school boards, teacher unions, and higher education. Selection criteria were based on a rigorous set of written narratives and interviews that included discussion around student engagement, creativity in instructions, improved school culture, education and instruction reaching beyond the classroom, community collaboration, and student achievement results. Ross will now go on to compete for the esteemed National Teacher of the Year Award. As Maryland’s Teacher of the Year, she will also spend the coming year as an educational speaker and advisor throughout Maryland and will receive “cash awards, technology prizes and numerous other gifts.” The program was streamed on Maryland Public Television and YouTube . Read the full press release. Learn more about the Maryland Teacher of the Year Program. Share this: Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Email Click to print (Opens in new window) Print Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Facebook Click to share on LinkedIn (Opens in new window) LinkedIn Click to share on X (Opens in new window) X Like this: Like Loading... Read more articles Previous Post Bowie State University Awarded Nearly $10 M in ARPA Funds to Improve Health IT, COVID Data Collection Next Post Howard to Host School Bus Driver Hiring Fair Tomorrow You Might Also Like Van Hollen Introduces Federal Bill to Fully Fund Special Education July 12, 2023 Bill Gates Focusing Efforts and Resources on School Reform November 24, 2010 Baltimore to Tackle Violence Via a School-Based Pilot November 2, 2022 Categories Categories Select Category 2021 MACo Issue Previews 2022 MACo Issue Previews 2023 MACo Issue Previews 2024 MACo Issue Previews 2025 MACo Issue Previews Agriculture Bill Hearing Board of Public Works Broadband Business Affairs Cannabis Coronavirus Corporate Partners County Budgets County Government and Structure County News Courts Cyber Economic Development Education Elections Emergency Management Employee Benefits and Relations Energy Environment Feature Finance and Procurement Fun Fact Fun Facts General Assembly News Government Liability and Courts Health and Human Services Higher Education Housing and Community Development Human Resources Information Technology Intergovernmental Relations Labor Leadership MACo Events MACo Testimony NACo Achievement Awards NACo and Federal Issues News You Can Use Parks and Recreation Pensions & Public Funds Planning and Zoning Policy Deep Dive Public Information and Ethics Public Safety and Corrections Risk Management School Construction and Capital Budgets State Budget and Fiscal Issues Summer Conference Summer Series Taxes and Revenues Tourism Transportation and Public Works Uncategorized Winter Conference Winter Series Contributors Michael Sanderson Kevin Kinnally Virginia White Karrington Anderson Dominic Butchko Sarah Sample Shantelle Malcolm-Lym Amanda Grosskrueger Kim Frock Our Latest News Carroll County Receives Timeline Waiver for Education Funding Compliance Grant Fuels Growth Across Western Maryland Counties FEMA Cancels Resilience Grants, Leaving Counties at Risk 23 Maryland Schools Receive Purple Star Designation for Support to Military Families Experts: More Dolphins Means a Better Bay Like what you see? SUBSCRIBE to get the latest news and notes from Annapolis! The official blog site of the Maryland Association of Counties. Facebook Twitter Subscribe to Conduit Street Subscribe to Blog via Email Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email. Email Address Subscribe Join 3,973 other subscribers Quick Links Legislative Initiatives Bill Tracking Issue Papers MDGA State Aid Overview Opioids NG 9-1-1 Pensions MACo Research Education Funding Staff Login © 2019 All rights reserved Discover more from Conduit Street Subscribe now to keep reading and get access to the full archive. Type your email… Subscribe Continue reading Loading Comments... Write a Comment... Email (Required) Name (Required) Website %d