Raducanu triumphs over Fernandez in all-teen final to win 2021 US Open title Skip to main content WTA Unlocked Shop WTA Apps English English Español Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Show All Matches Hide Matches Go back to the home page Tournaments Scores Rankings Players Players Head to Head Doubles Coaches News & Video News Videos Photos WTA Insider Netflix Stats The WTA About the WTA Original 9 Health Rally The World WTA Foundation WTA Apps Where To Watch Enter Your Search Tournaments Scores Rankings News Videos Tournaments Scores Rankings Players Players Head to Head Doubles Coaches News & Video News Videos Photos WTA Insider Netflix Stats The WTA About the WTA Original 9 Health Rally The World WTA Foundation WTA Apps Where To Watch Unlock live streams, fantasy games and more, all for free. Advantage, fans. Ready to join? Join for free Learn More Raducanu triumphs over Fernandez in all-teen final to win 2021 US Open title 2021 US Open • September 11, 2021 Darren Carroll/USTA WTA Staff Share this page Facebook Facebook Share via Facebook Twitter Twitter Share via Twitter WhatsApp WhatsApp Share via WhatsApp Copy Link Copy Link Share via copy URL copied Just three months ago, 18-year-old Emma Raducanu made her tour-level main-draw debut in Nottingham. Today, she is the US Open champion. The British teenager defeated 19-year-old Leylah Fernandez of Canada 6-4, 6-3 in an all-teenage US Open final to win her first Grand Slam title and her first tour-level title overall. Read more: Social Buzz: Halep, Roddick lead cheers for US Open champion Raducanu Raducanu had a perfect three weeks in New York. She made it through three rounds of qualifying without the loss of a set, then was equally pristine in her US Open main-draw debut, where she also did not drop a set in seven matches. She is the first woman to win the US Open without dropping a set since Serena Williams in 2014. Raducanu is also the youngest Grand Slam champion since Maria Sharapova won 2004 Wimbledon aged 17. Set one in four photos pic.twitter.com/LbMcTLouaP — US Open Tennis (@usopen) September 11, 2021 Ranked World No.150, Raducanu is the lowest-ranked player to win the US Open title since an unranked Kim Clijsters earned the first major of her comeback in Flushing Meadows in 2009. Raducanu is projected to rocket to World No.23 in Monday's new rankings. Raducanu also makes history by becoming the first qualifier to win a Grand Slam singles title (she had already become the first qualifier to make a Grand Slam final on Thursday). She is also the first British woman to win a Grand Slam singles title in over 40 years. (Virginia Wade triumphed on home soil at Wimbledon 1977, the year of the Silver Jubilee of Queen Elizabeth II.) Wade is the only other British woman to reach a US Open final in the Open Era, when the she won the first of her three Grand Slam singles titles in New York in 1968. Everyone has their fairy tale ending 😊 @EmmaRaducanu | #USOpen pic.twitter.com/2ttCchmixi — US Open Tennis (@usopen) September 11, 2021 "It's an absolute dream," Raducanu said in her victory press conference. "You just have visions of yourself going up to the box, hugging everyone, celebrating. That's something that you always think of, you always work for. Read more: The improbable run of US Open champion Emma Raducanu "With each match and tournament and week, I think I've really built in terms of confidence, in terms of my game, in terms of my ball striking. Everything came together today. I think to pull off some of the shots I did in the big moments when I really needed it was just an accumulation of everything I've learnt in the past five weeks. "I think what I did very well this tournament was press in the moments that I really needed to. I guess that's why I didn't drop a set on  paper, even though all of the matches were extremely challenging." Looking back on the ace that won her championship point, Raducanu said, "I don't think I made one serve that wide in the whole match, to be honest. I was like, 'If I'm going to make it, this is going to be the time.' I literally drove my legs up to that ball toss like never before. I landed it. Just disbelief, trying to take everything in, all the moment. "I think the biggest thing that you have visions of is, for me it was just winning, the winning moment, and going to celebrate with your team in the box, trying to find your way up to the box, just seeing them after the match. That's been playing in my head, like, a couple nights. I've fallen asleep to that." 🇬🇧 @EmmaRaducanu 🤝 Virginia Wade 🇬🇧 The 2021 US Open champion meets the 1968 US Open champion! #USOpen pic.twitter.com/2Jx4jEQFmf — wta (@WTA) September 12, 2021 As she had in all of her previous matches in New York, Raducanu eased through two sets with a mix of power and precision that belies her lack of experience at this level. Against World No.73 Fernandez, Raducanu had 22 winners to Fernandez's 18, while firing one fewer unforced error than the Canadian. Fernandez continued to use her tremendous footspeed and timing to extend rallies past their breaking points and grit out games other players might not have, and she saved 14 of the 18 break points she faced in the affair. However, Fernandez got fewer looks on Raducanu's serve, only breaking the Brit twice. Raducanu won 67 percent of points behind her first-service, while Fernandez took only 56 percent of points on her own first delivery in the 1-hour and 51-minute match. Home away from home. @EmmaRaducanu has made some new friends over three weeks in New York. pic.twitter.com/w3Do5KO2jc — US Open Tennis (@usopen) September 11, 2021 The match was competitive from the get-go, with both players firing rockets at the lines. Raducanu took the early lead after grinding out a break for 2-0 on her sixth break point of that game. However, any thoughts of a runaway were dispelled when Fernandez broke back on her fourth break point of the next game. There were no more break points until 5-4, where Raducanu fired a backhand crosscourt winner to line up double set point. Fernandez fended off that pair, as well as a third, but on the fourth chance of another lengthy game, Raducanu slammed a forehand winner to notch the one-set lead. Fernandez, though, grabbed the early advantage in the second set. After a tough hold for 1-1 from 0-40 down, Fernandez used her lefty forehand to set up three break points in the next game, and she attained the break for 2-1. But a backhand crosscourt return winner gave Raducanu the break back immediately, and the Brit started to edge toward victory. What a match. What a tournament. What bright futures for these two. pic.twitter.com/9N5nnu0olg — US Open Tennis (@usopen) September 11, 2021 A forehand passing winner gave Raducanu another break as she moved to a commanding 5-2 lead, and in that game she held two championship points. Fernandez again showed off her mettle, saving both and holding for 5-3, and she garnered a break point in the next game after a stunning rally which left Raducanu careening across the court, scraping her knee in the process. After a short medical time-out to attend to her cut, Raducanu came back to save that break point, and a second, before clinching a third championship point after a long miscue by Fernandez. The third time was the charm, with an ace, and Raducanu collapsed to the court as the newest, and arguably most unexpected, Grand Slam champion. Scroll to Top Share this page Facebook Facebook Share via Facebook Twitter Twitter Share via Twitter WhatsApp WhatsApp Share via WhatsApp Copy Link Copy Link Share via copy URL copied Latest Galleries View More Photos: Anastasia Potapova and all 2025's winners from match point down 2025 Match Point Saves • April 27, 2025 Photos: Belinda Bencic and all 2025's three-hour matches 2025's Longest Matches • April 26, 2025 Photos: Teodora Kostovic and all 2025's WTA main-draw debuts 2025 WTA Main-Draw Debuts • April 24, 2025 Scroll to Top Latest Articles No. 1 Sabalenka moves past Stearns into Madrid quarterfinals Tracing Uchijima’s surge: A snapshot of her journey to Madrid’s final eight Madrid Open Round of 16 schedule, matchups, start times and results Swiatek survives scare from Shnaider to return to Madrid quarters Latest Videos 02:58 Kostyuk ousts Potapova to complete Madrid quarterfinal lineup 2025 Madrid • 3 hrs ago THE OFFICIAL APP OF TENNIS IS HERE. DOWNLOAD NOW! Title Partner Hologic Global Partners PIF Morgan Stanley Rolex Gillette Venus Corpay Follow WTA on Social TikTok Facebook X YouTube Instagram Weibo About the WTA Management Team WTA Tour Board of Directors WTA Ventures Partnership Opportunities Job Opportunities WTA Rules Player Development Anti-Doping Official Guide Press Releases Match Notes & Historical Records Insider Podcast Affiliates International Tennis Federation ATP Tour Billie Jean King Cup International Tennis Hall of Fame Women's Sports Foundation World TeamTennis International Tennis Integrity Agency © 2025 WTA TOUR, INC. | WTA AND THE WTA LOGO ARE TRADEMARKS OF THE WTA TOUR, INC.