'The Shape of Water' Wins Best Picture Oscar - CBS Los Angeles Latest U.S. Trump 100 Days World Politics Entertainment HealthWatch MoneyWatch Crime Space Sports Brand Studio Local News Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas Live CBS News 24/7 Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas 48 Hours 60 Minutes Shows 48 Hours 60 Minutes America Decides CBS Evening News CBS Mornings CBS Morning News CBS Reports CBS Saturday Morning The Daily Report The Dish Face the Nation Sunday Morning The Takeout The Uplift CBS News Investigates CBS News Confirmed CBS Village Podcasts Newsletters Download Our App CBS News Team Executive Team Brand Studio Paramount+ Join Our Talent Community RSS Feeds Davos Interviews A Moment With... Innovators & Disruptors Economy 4.0 Los Angeles | News Weather Sports Videos KCAL News Shows All News LA News OC News IE News U.S. KCAL News Investigates Entertainment Politics Consumer Business Health On Your Side Latest Weather Radars & Maps All Sports Chargers LA Kings Rams Lakers Clippers Golf CBS Sports HQ Dodgers Angels Soccer Hockey College Sports The Desk Let's Go Places On Your Side Inside SoCal Java with Jamie KCAL News Investigates Class Act SoCal Spotlight People Making a Difference Station Info KCAL News Team Contests & Promotions Advertise Seen on TV News Tip Download the App Galleries Watch CBS News Los Angeles 'The Shape of Water' Wins Best Picture Oscar March 4, 2018 / 9:13 PM PST / KCAL News LOS ANGELES (AP) — The Cold War fantasy film "The Shape of Water" was the winner of the best picture Oscar at the 90th annual Academy Awards, held Sunday at the Dolby Theatre in Hollywood. Director Guillermo del Toro's film has been considered one of the front-runners for the evening's top honor. It received a leading 13 nominations for this year's Oscars, and won four Oscars on Sunday night. And the Oscar goes to... pic.twitter.com/M7o7QJKacs — The Academy (@TheAcademy) March 5, 2018 It stars Sally Hawkins as a mute janitor who falls in love with an aquatic creature kept captive in a government lab. Del Toro also won for best director. He dedicated the win to young filmmakers around the world. Related: Oscars 2018 Winners Gallery Frances McDormand's portrayal of a mother seeking justice for her murdered daughter in "Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri" won the best actress Academy Award. It is McDormand's second Oscar and comes for her blistering turn as a mother who feels authorities haven't done enough to investigate her daughter's rape and murder. McDormand won a best supporting actress award for her role as a police officer in "Fargo." Her win Sunday was not a surprise — she has swept the major awards this year. The actress opened her speech by saying if she fell over during her speech, someone should pick her up because had "some things to say." She thanked her family, telling them they fill her with everlasting joy. She then set her Oscar on the stage and asked every female Oscar nominee to stand up, generating thunderous applause. McDormand looked joyous as she looked out on the women. Gary Oldman's transformation into Winston Churchill for "Darkest Hour" won him the best actor Academy Award. Related: Social Sphere: The 90th Academy Awards It is Oldman's first win on only his second nomination, despite his lengthy career of compelling performances. The 59-year-old had been considered the front-runner for the honor, having swept awards season. Oldman underwent hours of makeup to become Churchill for the film, which focuses on a pivotal time in the British leader's career when he rallied his country to fight the Nazis. Oldman thanked Churchill in his acceptance speech, as well as those who worked with him on "Darkest Hour." He also thanked his 99-year-old mother, telling her, "thank you for your love and your support. Put the kettle on. I'm bringing Oscar home." Composer Alexandre Desplat's music for "The Shape of Water" won the Academy Award for best original score. Cinematographer Roger Deakins won his first Academy Award Sunday for "Blade Runner 2049." It is Deakins' first win after 14 nominations. Allison Janney won the best supporting actress Oscar for her role in "I, Tonya." Sam Rockwell's portrayal of a racist sheriff's deputy in "Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri" won the best supporting actor Oscar. Click here for the complete list of nominees and winners. (TM and © Copyright 2017 CBS Local Media, a division of CBS Radio Inc. and its relevant subsidiaries. CBS RADIO and EYE Logo TM and Copyright 2017 CBS Broadcasting Inc. Used under license. All Rights Reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. The Associated Press contributed to this report.) More from CBS News 3 major events in Los Angeles are expected to tie up the evening commute. Which freeways will be affected. Thousands of Los Angeles County workers go on strike over contract negotiations Edman delivers in 10th as Dodgers weather Myers' pinch-hit slam for 7-6 win over Marlins Alijah Arenas recovering well after Cybertruck crash in Los Angeles Kobe and Gigi Bryant mural vandalized in downtown Los Angeles © 2018 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved. Featured Local Savings More from CBS News 3 major events in Los Angeles are expected to tie up the evening commute. Which freeways will be affected. Thousands of Los Angeles County workers go on strike over contract negotiations Edman delivers in 10th as Dodgers weather Myers' pinch-hit slam for 7-6 win over Marlins Alijah Arenas recovering well after Cybertruck crash in Los Angeles Featured Trump's Speech Marking First 100 Days Poll On Trump's First 100 Days 2025 NBA Playoff Schedule 2025 Kentucky Derby Follow Us On YouTube Facebook Instagram TikTok X CBS News Los Angeles Meet the Team Program Guide Contests & Promotions Advertise With Us Sitemap Regulation Public File for KCBS-TV Public File for KCAL-TV Public Inspection File Help FCC Applications EEO Report Privacy Privacy Policy California Notice Your Privacy Choices Terms of Use Company About Paramount Advertise With Paramount Join Our Talent Community Help Feedback ©2025 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved. View CBS News In CBS News App Open Chrome Safari Continue Be the first to know Get browser notifications for breaking news, live events, and exclusive reporting. Not Now Turn On