Reddit - The heart of the internet Skip to main content Open menu Open navigation Go to Reddit Home r/splatoon A chip A close button Get App Get the Reddit app Log In Log in to Reddit Expand user menu Open settings menu Go to splatoon r/splatoon r/splatoon The community for the Nintendo third person shooter, Splatoon!  Whether you're a kid or a squid or an octoling; join us!   Subreddit icon by u/Kellie975 Members Online • WyntonPlus Splatoon 3 is doing well, content-wise Discussion I know a lot of people are gonna disagree with me on this, but I really think S3 is delivering a healthy amount of content+updates, and isn't anywhere near as barebones as some people think it is. Before you downvote, just read my thoughts, and take them with a grain of salt because I don't design games or anything lmao. The game may have launched with an underwhelming number of weapon kits and maps, and the content addition is a bit of a drip, but they're not falling behind. Each update adds another 2 maps and 13 Weapon kits, but those shouldn't be the focus right now. Splatoon 3 is adding tons and tons of content to Salmon Run. 4 maps so far, numerous special waves, a new cohozuna fight (and another type coming soon), plus special events all the time. I mean, to go from the "every once in a while" availability of the game mode in S2 to the "always on, never the same" deal we have going right now is a huge leap. It's honestly where I make most of my money, and get most of my chunks. They're adding more ways to spend scales soon, throwback suits, and the mode has even been given its own semi-splatfest-level event. Salmon Run is getting more than ever. The game also introduced way more ways to style your character. Wanna change your pants, hairstyle, eyebrows, eye color, even race? S3 has your back and you can do that whenever you want to. Plus there are tons of clothes, and even more to come, new and old. We've got lockers now too, meaning you can collect all sorts of funky items and stickers and then display however you feel like, bringing even more of your own personality to your character. They even added banners, so you can display your name and a cool/fun title, a neat background, and badges to display your personal achievements, or just rep your fav characters. I could talk about badges for hours too, especially since there are so many of them. Now I know that the current maps are a little underwhelming, especially the returning ones that have been "shaved down." The thing is, once this next update comes out (in a week) we'll have 16 stages, which is as many as S1 had in its entire lifespan. We've also seen that they fully have the ability to edit stages mid-lifespan, so they could easily fix some of the more annoying stages that in the game right now. Plus it's entirely possible that they'll soon have enough to start doing 3 in a rotation, which would easily break up some of the repetition. (That is of course, just a theory) I think that posts like the ones made by u/parchmentEngineer (sorry, I can't seem to link the exact post) that include the large infographic of all the upcoming stuff are very good proof of this. The S3 designers are putting a lot of effort into this game, they've even come up with new specials and everything. Despite a lot of comments I've seen on here and on Twitter about this game being "drip-fed," Splatoon 3 is doing well, and will continue to do so. I'm looking forward to it. TL;DR: Splatoon 3 is not starved for content, and will only continue to grow from here. I'm very excited for the future of the game. Read more New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue with Email Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy . Public Anyone can view, post, and comment to this community Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of February 20, 2023 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of February 2023 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2023 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Reddit, Inc. © 2025. All rights reserved. Expand Navigation Collapse Navigation &nbsp; &nbsp; TOPICS Internet Culture (Viral) Amazing Animals & Pets Cringe & Facepalm Funny Interesting Memes Oddly Satisfying Reddit Meta Wholesome & Heartwarming Games Action Games Adventure Games Esports Gaming Consoles & Gear Gaming News & Discussion Mobile Games Other Games Role-Playing Games Simulation Games Sports & Racing Games Strategy Games Tabletop Games Q&As Q&As Stories & Confessions Technology 3D Printing Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning Computers & Hardware Consumer Electronics DIY Electronics Programming Software & Apps Streaming Services Tech News & Discussion Virtual & Augmented Reality Pop Culture Celebrities Creators & Influencers Generations & Nostalgia Podcasts Streamers Tarot & Astrology Movies & TV Action Movies & Series Animated Movies & Series Comedy Movies & Series Crime, Mystery, & Thriller Movies & Series Documentary Movies & Series Drama Movies & Series Fantasy Movies & Series Horror Movies & Series Movie News & Discussion Reality TV Romance Movies & Series Sci-Fi Movies & Series Superhero Movies & Series TV News & Discussion RESOURCES About Reddit Advertise Reddit Pro BETA Help Blog Careers Press Communities Best of Reddit Topics