Rudolph Tabbed as Semifinalist for Walter Camp Award - Oklahoma State University Athletics Skip to main content Oklahoma State University Rudolph Tabbed as Semifinalist for Walter Camp Award November 15, 2017 | Cowboy Football Share: STILLWATER – Oklahoma State quarterback Mason Rudolph is one of 15 players to be named a semifinalist for the 2017 Walter Camp Player of the Year Award, the Walter Camp Football Foundation announced Wednesday. Prior to Wednesday's announcement, Rudolph had already been named a semifinalist for the Maxwell, Davey O'Brien and Jason Witten Collegiate Man of the Year awards. He is also one of five remaining contenders for the 2017 Johnny Unitas Golden Arm Award. The Rock Hill, South Carolina, native has quarterbacked Oklahoma State to a 30-8 career record as a starter, and he currently owns no fewer than 32 school records. Last time out, Rudolph recorded his 20th career game with at least 300 passing yards and he is OSU's all-time leading passer. Rudolph currently leads the nation in passing yards with 3,690 yards up to this point,  and he has a good chance to finish his career as the most efficient quarterback in school history. Rudolph is one of two Big 12 athletes to be named semifinalists for the Walter Camp Award, as he is joined by Oklahoma quarterback Baker Mayfield. Together, they are two of six quarterbacks named semifinalists, while the remainder of the group consists of five running backs and four defensive players. Rudolph is OSU's first Walter Camp Award semifinalist since Emmanuel Ogbah in 2015. The All-America candidate can also join Barry Sanders (1988) as the only Cowboys in school history to win the prestigious award. The 2017 Walter Camp Player of the Year Award is voted on by the 130 FBS head coaches and sports information directors. A list of five finalists will be revealed on Wednesday, Nov. 29, and the winner will be announced on Thursday, Dec. 7. © 2025 Oklahoma State University Athletics. Terms of Service Privacy Policy Accessibility Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Learfield Sidearm