The Inside Story of How Facebook Acquired Instagram | by Sarah Frier | OneZero Open in app Sign up Sign in Write Sign up Sign in OneZero · OneZero is a former publication from Medium about the impact of technology on people and the future. Currently inactive and not taking submissions. Member-only story The Inside Story of How Facebook Acquired Instagram The social giant’s controversial $1 billion acquisition shows how a tech monopoly wields power Sarah Frier Follow 11 min read · Aug 5, 2020 -- 2 Share Photo: Silas Stein/picture alliance/Getty Images Facebook’s $1 billion acquisition of Instagram was a watershed moment for Big Tech. It demonstrated just how much wealth and power the industry holds — and how it could be wielded. Secret emails, published as part of a historic antitrust hearing , revealed that Mark Zuckerberg viewed the app as a threat to his own social network, and one to be neutralized at great cost. In this excerpt from No Filter: The Inside Story of Instagram , author Sarah Frier offers a window into how this monumental deal unfolded behind the scenes — and what Silicon Valley power looks like in action. In early 2012, Twitter had been aggressively courting Instagram for a potential acquisition. Instagram’s founders, Kevin Systrom and Mike Krieger, were wined and dined over sushi and breakfast at the St. Regis hotel. Twitter even put together a term sheet to acquire them for 7% to 10% of its stock, worth $500 million to $700 million. CEO Dick Costolo explained his vision: that Systrom would get to continue running Instagram, but could also be head of Twitter’s product, and help Twitter become a more visual destination. -- -- 2 Follow Published in OneZero 283K Followers · Last published Apr 18, 2022 OneZero is a former publication from Medium about the impact of technology on people and the future. Currently inactive and not taking submissions. Follow Follow Written by Sarah Frier 6.5K Followers · 603 Following Tech reporter for Bloomberg in SF (@Business). UNC grad. Email sfrier1 at bloomberg dot net. Follow Responses ( 2 ) See all responses Help Status About Careers Press Blog Privacy Rules Terms Text to speech