Avengers: Doomsday release date, cast, plot, and more news | GamesRadar+ Skip to main content Games Radar Newsarama Total Film Edge Retro Gamer SFX Open menu Close menu Total Film The smarter take on movies Search Search GamesRadar+ Sign in View Profile Sign out Subscribe US Edition UK US Canada Australia News Reviews Subscribe Podcast Newsletter More PS5 Xbox Series X Nintendo Switch Nintendo Switch 2 PC Platforms Tabletop Gaming Comics Toys & Collectibles SFX Newsarama Retro Gamer Newsletters About us Features No offers found Trending Best Netflix Movies Best movies on Disney Plus Movie Release Dates Best Netflix Shows Entertainment Movies Action Movies Marvel Movies Avengers: Doomsday Avengers: Doomsday release date, cast, plot, and more news Features By Lauren Milici Contributions from Mireia Mullor last updated 28 April 2025 Everything you need to know about Avengers 5, now called Doomsday Comments ( 0 ) ( ) When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works . (Image credit: Disney) Avengers: Doomsday is hitting theaters in only one year, so you better start getting ready for what the upcoming MCU film has in store. For one, Robert Downey Jr. will be back as the franchise's new big bad Doctor Doom, and the story is likely drawing inspiration from a comic storyline that could change everything for Earth's Mightiest Heroes. If you want to get ahead, here we have compiled everything we know about Avengers: Doomsday release date, confirmed cast, filming updates, plot theories, first-look images, and more. This is the first time we'll a big superhero team-up since Avengers: Endgame, so of course this is not only one of the most exciting upcoming Marvel movies , but also a potentially record-breaking box office hit. With Marvel Phase 6 kicking off this summer with The Fantastic Four: First Steps , it seems like new pieces are coming together to set up the events of Avengers 5. Originally, the plot was going to center around Kang the Conqueror, but Marvel dropped the actor in 2023 and set a new direction with Downey Jr's return. As the release draws near, we're getting more details about the production, including a massive casting announcement which included a number of Fox X-Men making an MCU debut. You may like Avengers: Secret Wars release date, cast, plot, and more Everything announced during Marvel's Avengers: Doomsday cast reveal live stream With filming now under way, Avengers: Doomsday is taking shape, as the highly anticipated film paves the way for the follow-up Avengers: Secret Wars , which is set to be released in 2027. But let's not get ahead of ourselves. Below, we've gathered everything we've learned so far about Avengers: Doomsday release date, cast, plot, and trailers. It'll be regularly updated as the next chapter of the Avengers Initiative comes to light. Avengers 5 release date (Image credit: Getty Images) Currently, Avengers 5 (aka Doomsday) has a release date of May 1, 2026. Filming has now started, as announced by the Russo Brothers with a first set picture . "Day one…" the co-directors wrote on Instagram on April 28, alongside a photo of a chair with "Victor Von Doom" printed on it. Sign up for the Total Film Newsletter Bringing all the latest movie news, features, and reviews to your inbox Contact me with news and offers from other Future brands Receive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsors By submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over. Originally, Kevin Feige confirmed that it would be released in 2025, with Secret Wars to follow in 2026 during Marvel's 2022 San Diego Comic-Con panel . Now, Secret Wars is due on May 7, 2027. So, why such a long wait between Avengers: Endgame and Avengers 5? "When we were doing Phase 1, Phase 2, and Phase 3, there were [fewer] projects over more years," Feige previously explained . "They were smaller projects and individual character stories, and it felt appropriate at that point, that after every two or three years that it took for a phase, we would do an Avengers film. "As [Phases] 4, 5, and 6 were coming together, there are more projects in less years – because of all the amazing stuff we're now allowed to do on Disney Plus , and getting characters from Fox – Fantastic Four , and Deadpool – that it felt like, certainly after Infinity War and Endgame, that we thought Avengers movies aren't cappers." Avengers 5 cast (Image credit: Marvel Entertainment) Thanks to a surprise casting reveal during SDCC 2024, we know that Robert Downey Jr. is coming back to the MCU as Doctor Doom. This is obviously a big shock and has tons of timeline implications, as Downey Jr. famously played Iron Man until the character's death in Avengers Endgame (aka one of the best Marvel movies of all time). But continuity questions aside, for now, we also know a decent chunk of stars who will be popping up with the ex-Tony Stark. It was also revealed during the event that the casts of Fantastic Four (Pedro Pascal, Vanessa Kirby, Joseph Quinn, and Ebon Moss-Bachrach) and the Thunderbolts* (Florence Pugh, Sebastian Stan, David Harbour, Wyatt Russell, and more) would be part of Avengers 5. More of the heroic cast of Avengers Doomsday was revealed during a surprise livestream from Marvel Studios on March 26, 2025. You can read the current confirmed cast list below: Chris Hemsworth as Thor Vanessa Kirby as Sue Storm Anthony Mackie as Captain America Sebastian Stan as Bucky Barnes Letitia Wright as Black Panther Paul Rudd as Ant-Man Wyatt Russell as US Agent Tenoch Huerta Mejia as Namor Ebon Moss-Bachrach as Thing Simu Liu as Shang-Chi Florence Pugh as Yelena Belova Kelsey Grammer as Beast Lewis Pullman as Sentry Danny Ramirez as Falcon Joseph Quinn as Human Torch David Harbour as Red Guardian Winston Duke as M’Baku Hannah John-Kamen as Ghost Tom Hiddleston as Loki Patrick Stewart as Charles Xavier Ian McKellen as Magneto Alan Cumming as Nightcrawler Rebecca Romijn as Mystique James Marsden as Cyclops Channing Tatum as Gambit Pedro Pascal as Mister Fantastic We expect more names to be added to this massive list as well. Thanks to the comics, we know that more people are involved in the Doomsday plot, such as She-Hulk. So stay tuned for more updates. Benedict Cumberbatch may also be a surprise addition to look out for. The star has said he wouldn't be in the movie, then later said he would be . Expect the unexpected at all times. Avengers 5 plot (Image credit: Marvel Comics) Plot details for Avengers: Doomsday are currently in flux. As we mentioned above, Robert Downey Jr’s casting as Doctor Doom means some multiverse antics need to be explained. So, we will likely see the TVA from Loki fame make an appearance at some point. However, the film that sounds like it will give us the most clues about the Avengers 5 plot is The Fantastic Four. As many comic book fans know, Doctor Doom made his first appearance in the Fantastic Four comics back in the '60s. Since then, he has been their greatest foe, so it makes sense that he'll be introduced as the MCU's next greatest threat during the Marvel Phase 6 movie. We also know that Avengers 5 will likely have to address the Kang plotline that Marvel has seemingly chosen to abandon for now. Throughout Marvel Phase 4 and Marvel Phase 5, Kang was set up as the next Thanos figure in the MCU. He made an appearance in Ant-Man: Quantumania and has been a steady presence in the Disney Plus series Loki. So yeah, Marvel Studios needs to clear up that massive character drop before they leave Kang in the Void for good. We'll keep you updated as more plot details come our way. For now, you can also check out our guide on how to watch all the Marvel movies in order . Avengers 5 director and writer (Image credit: Marvel Studios) SDCC 2024 announced that the Russo brothers will be directing both Avengers: Doomsday and Avengers: Secret Wars. The two are Marvel legends, since they helmed Avengers: Infinity War and Endgame, so it's welcomed news to see their return. "Joe and I truly believed Endgame was the end of the road for us," Anthony Russo said during the event. "In the time since, through a special story, we have come to potentially see a road to take with you all." Initially, Shang-Chi mastermind Deston Daniel Crettin was down to direct the next Avengers movie. However, in November 2023, it was confirmed that he was stepping down to focus on other Marvel projects , including Wonder Man. In November 2022, it was confirmed that Michael Waldron will be penning the script , taking over from Jeff Loveness. Waldron, known for his work on Loki and Doctor Strange 2, was already down to write Avengers: Secret Wars. And that's everything we know about Avengers 5. For much more action check out our guides to all the upcoming superhero movies and all the upcoming movies heading our way this year. See more Movies Features TOPICS Marvel Comics Marvel Studios Lauren Milici Social Links Navigation Senior Writer, Tv & Film Lauren Milici is a Senior Entertainment Writer for GamesRadar+ currently based in the Midwest. She previously reported on breaking news for The Independent's Indy100 and created TV and film listicles for Ranker. Her work has been published in Fandom, Nerdist, Paste Magazine, Vulture, PopSugar, Fangoria, and more. With contributions from Mireia Mullor Contributing Writer You must confirm your public display name before commenting Please logout and then login again, you will then be prompted to enter your display name. Logout Read more Avengers: Secret Wars release date, cast, plot, and more Everything announced during Marvel's Avengers: Doomsday cast reveal live stream "He is so dialed in": Robert Downey Jr. is coming up with backstory and costume ideas for Doctor Doom ahead of Avengers: Doomsday Avengers: Doomsday concept art reportedly "leaks" to reveal major returning MCU characters Avengers: Doomsday gets a reported filming window, and it's very, very soon Avengers: Doomsday directors admit it's a "difficult" movie to make but tease some great Marvel collaborators "old and new" Latest in Marvel Movies Kevin Feige is giving nothing away about Avengers: Doomsday, except its filming start date and which Marvel star has already worked on it The Russo brothers share first behind-the-scenes look at Avengers: Doomsday – and it's another chair A leaked Lego set seemingly reveals the first full look at Fantastic Four's towering Galactus Marvel is making history with a very meta Fantastic Four comic that exists simultaneously in both the real world and the MCU Marvel's Blade movie gets another extremely disappointing update: "Maybe it'll come around again but I doubt it" Ryan Reynolds says Deadpool joining the X-Men or Avengers would be "the end": "That's his wish fulfillment, and you can't give him that" Latest in Features I love Blue Prince for one simple reason: it's the closest thing we'll get to a House of Leaves game After 8 hours of being hunted by a murderous unicorn in Oblivion Remastered, I'm torn between "we're so back" and "please save me" I’m hyped for the Switch 2, but I fully believe the Switch Lite has a bright future ahead of it 20 Years of the Nintendo DS: "If someone had told you in 2004 that Nintendo was about to abandon the Game Boy, would you have believed them?" Creepy Redneck Dinosaur Mansion 3 is the first "survival horror comedy RPG metroidvania" I've ever played, and that sure is a lot of words After 3 hours, I'm impressed by how Blades of Fire smelts Dark Souls and Monster Hunter together to forge high-impact action into twisted new shapes GAME REVIEWS MOVIE REVIEWS TV REVIEWS 1 Skin Deep review: "A genuinely stellar immersive sim, replete with chaos" 2 Clair Obscur: Expedition 33 review: "An old-school feeling JRPG as dynamic as Persona but with parry-filled battles as hard-won as Sekiro" 3 Lost Records: Bloom and Rage – Tape 2 review: "Don't Nod's new coming-of-age series ends with teen defiance and queer rage" 4 Arydia: The Paths We Dare Tread review -  "Manages to give everyone something D&D can't match" 5 Blue Prince review: "This  exploration roguelike is like nothing else I've played, and became a puzzle obsession I just couldn't shake" 1 A Minecraft Movie Review: "Jack Black's irrepressible star turn helps elevate this video game adaptation" 2 The Electric State review: "Although this may be their most visually stunning movie yet, it looks like the Russos are yet to find their footing outside of the MCU" 3 Fight or Flight review: "Slick and silly action sequences garner well-earned John Wick and Bullet train comparisons" 4 Mickey 17 Review: "Bong Joon Ho's best English movie to date and arguably Robert Pattinson's best movie ever" 5 Captain America: Brave New World review: "Anthony Mackie's Cap earns his Stars and Stripes in this uneven, un-MCU thriller" 1 Doctor Who season 2, episode 3 spoiler review: 'The Well' is a "ruthlessly gripping" installment that challenges Belinda 2 Andor season 2 review: "Every bit as stellar as its predecessor – at times, it even surpasses it" 3 Doctor Who season 2, episode 2 spoiler-free review: 'Lux' is a "bold, bonkers" second episode with an amazing villain 4 Doctor Who season 2, episode 1 spoiler-free review: "'The Robot Revolution' is an impressive first episode for new companion Belinda Chandra" 5 The Last of Us season 2 review: "Brilliant and visceral but fails to capture the magic of season 1" GamesRadar+ is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site . About Us Contact Future's experts Terms and conditions Privacy policy Cookies policy Advertise with us Review guidelines Write for us Accessibility Statement Careers © Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street, New York, NY 10036. Close Please login or signup to comment Please wait... Login Sign Up