Photos: Raiders, Raiderettes surprise 2021 National Teacher of the Year Skip to main content Primary nav News Multimedia Photos Team Draft Schedule Allegiant Stadium Raiderettes Community History Promotions Fans Fit Raiders Foundation Español Connect With Us TICKETS SHOP Search Open menu button Action related nav Watch Tickets Shop My Account LIVE NFL GAMES Latest Purchase Photos Practice Gameday Top Shots Silver and Black and White 177 Feet Up Raiderettes Raiders on Instagram Advertising Photos: Raiders, Raiderettes surprise 2021 National Teacher of the Year View photos of the Raiders and Raiderettes surprising the 2021 National Teacher of the Year, Juliana Urtubey, with a Silver & Black-themed gift basket to recognize her incredible achievement. Copied! 1 / 14 Raiderettes Camryn and Monica D. await to surprise and congratulate the National Teacher of the Year, Juliana Urtubey, with a Raiders gift basket. Matt Aguirre/Las Vegas Raiders 2 / 14 National Teacher of the Year, Juliana Urtubey, before being surprised by the Raiderettes with a Raiders gift basket. Matt Aguirre/Las Vegas Raiders 3 / 14 National Teacher of the Year, Juliana Urtubey, before being surprised by the Raiderettes with a Raiders gift basket. Matt Aguirre/Las Vegas Raiders 4 / 14 National Teacher of the Year, Juliana Urtubey, is surprised and congratulated by Raiderettes Camryn and Monica D. with a Raiders gift basket. Matt Aguirre/Las Vegas Raiders 5 / 14 National Teacher of the Year, Juliana Urtubey, puts on a Las Vegas Raiders mask after being surprised by the Raiderettes with a Raiders gift basket. Matt Aguirre/Las Vegas Raiders 6 / 14 National Teacher of the Year, Juliana Urtubey, puts on a Las Vegas Raiders hat and mask after being surprised by the Raiderettes with a Raiders gift basket. Matt Aguirre/Las Vegas Raiders 7 / 14 National Teacher of the Year, Juliana Urtubey, poses for a photo with Raiderettes Camryn and Monica D. after being surprised and congratulated with a Raiders gift basket. Matt Aguirre/Las Vegas Raiders 8 / 14 National Teacher of the Year, Juliana Urtubey, talks with Raiderettes Camryn and Monica D. after being surprised and congratulated with a Raiders gift basket. Matt Aguirre/Las Vegas Raiders 9 / 14 National Teacher of the Year, Juliana Urtubey, waves to her students after being surprised and congratulated by Raiderette Camryn and Monica D. with a Raiders gift basket. Matt Aguirre/Las Vegas Raiders 10 / 14 Raiderette Monica D. waves to a student after surprising and congratulating National Teacher of the Year, Juliana Urtubey, with a Raiders gift basket. Matt Aguirre/Las Vegas Raiders 11 / 14 Raiderette Camryn talks with a student after surprising and congratulating National Teacher of the Year, Juliana Urtubey, with a Raiders gift basket. Matt Aguirre/Las Vegas Raiders 12 / 14 National Teacher of the Year, Juliana Urtubey, poses for a photo with Raiderettes Camryn and Monica D. fter being surprised and congratulated with a Raiders gift basket. Matt Aguirre/Las Vegas Raiders 13 / 14 National Teacher of the Year, Juliana Urtubey, is surprised and congratulated by Raiderettes Camryn and Monica D. with a Raiders gift basket. Matt Aguirre/Las Vegas Raiders 14 / 14 Kermit R. Booker Sr. Elementary School principal Jose Silva wears a Las Vegas Raiders hat and mask after National Teacher of the Year, Juliana Urtubey, is surprised by the Raiderettes with a Raiders gift basket. Matt Aguirre/Las Vegas Raiders Advertising This Ad will close in 3 Advertising Related gallery Photos: Raiders host youth football combine The Las Vegas Raiders hosted a youth football combine for athletes at Durango High School. gallery Photos: Raiders visit Clark High School to donate equipment The Las Vegas Raiders took a trip to Clark High School to donate equipment to the football team. gallery Photos: Silver and Black Flag Football League Season Wrap-up The Las Vegas Raiders were on hand as the YMCA ended their first Silver and Black Flag Football season at Bill and Lillie Heinrich YMCA gallery Photos: Raiders Junior Training Camp at Steve Schorr Elementary School The Raiders hosted a Junior Raiders Training Camp at Steve Schorr Elementary School. gallery Photos: Raiders library card launch event at The Lion Habitat Ranch In celebration of a Las Vegas Raiders edition Henderson Library card being launched, an event was held at The Lion Habitat Ranch where guests signed up for library cards, enjoyed story time and learned about the conservation of big cats and other animals. gallery Photos: Raiders Junior Training Camp at Ulis Newton Elementary School The Raiders hosted a Junior Raiders Training Camp at Ulis Newton Elementary School. gallery Photos: Raiders and UNLV host R.U.S.H. The Las Vegas Raiders partnered with the UNLV School of Public Health to host 250 middle school girls for the R.U.S.H. event focusing on the fundamentals of flag football, nutrition, and the importance of exercise, movement and mental health. gallery Photos: ELITE Academy for special teams players The Las Vegas Raiders hosted an ELITE Academy with kickers, punters and long snappers for an experience to work through character development, film study, position specific drills and field work. gallery Photos: Raiders host ELITE Academy for multiple position groups The Las Vegas Raiders hosted an ELITE Academy with running backs, tight ends, linebackers, quarterbacks, wide receivers and defensive backs for an experience to work with alumnus Bene Benwikere through character development, film study, position specific drills and field work. gallery Photos: Raiders Junior Training Camp at O.K. Adcock Elementary School The Raiders hosted a Junior Raiders Training Camp at O.K. Adcock Elementary School. gallery Photos: Raiders host Pro Football Cares Sports Emergency Response Training A Pro Football Cares Sports Emergency Response training was held at Raiders HQ where athletic trainers and coaches were able to participate in a series of simulations on football equipment removal, cardiac arrest and exertional heat stroke. gallery Photos: Raiders ELITE Academy for girls flag football athletes The Raiders hosted girls flag football athletes for ELITE Academy, an event where athletes were able to work through drills, film study and character development with alumnus Teyo Johnson. Latest Content audio John Spytek breaks down the Raiders' 2025 draft class | UFR Apr 29, 2025 General Manager John Spytek added 11 new Raiders through the 2025 NFL Draft—and he's looking for them to compete and push the roster forward. gallery Offseason Program: Tuesday 4.29.25 Apr 29, 2025 Head inside Intermountain Health Performance Center to see photos of the Las Vegas Raiders during an offseason program workout. news Raiders make concerted effort to add depth to the trenches through the 2025 Draft Apr 29, 2025 Spending draft capital on offensive and defensive linemen was a necessity for Raiders in later rounds. gallery Photos: Raiders host youth football combine Apr 29, 2025 The Las Vegas Raiders hosted a youth football combine for athletes at Durango High School. news Rhett Lewis: Analyzing the Raiders' 2025 draft class Apr 29, 2025 NFL Network and Raiders.com contributor Rhett Lewis breaks down each of the Silver and Black's 2025 draft selections and how they fit in on the roster. gallery Photos: The Raiders' 2025 Draft Class Apr 29, 2025 Check out photos of all eleven of the Silver and Black's newest rookies. gallery Offseason Program: Monday 4.28.25 Apr 28, 2025 As the Raiders head into phase two of their offseason program, view photos from a workout at Intermountain Health Performance Center. news What They're Saying: NFL media members hand out draft grades Apr 28, 2025 John Spytek and staff received strong reviews following his first draft as Raiders general manager. news Directiva de Raiders 'contenta' con el trabajo hecho en el draft 2025 Apr 28, 2025 Tras el trabajo arduo de evaluación de prospectos, la nueva directiva de Las Vegas vive su primer draft con el equipo del que salieron con once nuevos jugadores. news Two picks apart, Tommy Mellott and Cam Miller become Raiders after battling in multiple FCS Championship games Apr 28, 2025 With an expected position change, Mellott will be catching passes from North Dakota State's quarterback that's defeated him in three FCS playoff games. audio Ashton Jeanty wants Raider Nation to get their popcorn ready | UFR Apr 27, 2025 The Raiders' first-round pick out of Boise State is ready to put on a show in Silver and Black. video John Spytek and Brandon Yeargan recap 2025 NFL Draft: 'The competitiveness of this group is unique' Apr 26, 2025 General Manager John Spytek and Director of College Scouting Brandon Yeargan address the media to recap the 2025 NFL Draft. View All Advertising Club Links Club Links About The Raiders Career Opportunities Administration Accessibility Contact Us Privacy Policy Site Map TEAM Roster Depth Chart Coaches Statistics Transactions Standings History Draft TICKETS PSL Holders Premium Seating Seating and Pricing Map My Account STADIUM Allegiant Stadium Events & Tickets Plan Your Visit Allegiant Stadium Suites Host An Event Code of Conduct Tours MULTIMEDIA Raiders Podcast Network Game Radio Broadcast Info Raider Nation Radio 920AM TV Network Spanish Radio Gameday Magazines Media Guide FANS Connect With Us Email Newsletter Modelo Tailgate Zone Wallpapers Activities The Raider Image Store Promotions NFL Clubs NFL Clubs AFC North AFC East AFC South AFC West NFC North NFC East NFC South NFC West More NFL Sites More NFL Sites NFL Football Operations NFL Shop NFL On Location Pro Football Hall of Fame Licensing USA Football NFL Extra Points NFL Ticket Exchange Download apps Download Apps ©2025 by the Las Vegas Raiders. All rights reserved. No portion of this site may be reproduced without the express written permission of the Las Vegas Raiders. Legal Privacy Policy Terms of Service Accessibility Ad Choices Your Privacy Choices Cookie Settings Preference Center Big left arrow icon Big right arrow icon Close icon Copy Url Three dots icon Down arrow icon Email icon Email icon Exit Fullscreen icon External link icon Facebook logo Football icon Facebook logo Instagram logo Snapchat logo YouTube logo TikTok logo Spotify logo LinkedIn logo Grid icon Key icon Left arrow icon Link icon Location icon Mail icon Menu icon Open icon Phone icon Play icon Radio icon Rewind icon Right arrow icon Search icon Select icon Selected icon TV icon Up arrow icon User icon Audio icon Add to calendar icon NFC icon AFC icon NFL icon Carousel Icon List View Website Instagram Twitter Facebook Snapchat Shop Icon Profile Overlay Avatar Add Airplay Arrow Left Arrow Right Arrow Up Arrow Down Audio Back 5s Back 10s Back 30s Calendar Chart Check Down Left Right Up Chromecast Off Chromecast On Close Closed Captions Bench Off Bench On Broad Off Broad On Vertical Off Vertical On Comment Dock Done Download Draft Fantasy Filter Forward 5s Forward 10s Forward 30s Full Screen Off Full Screen On Gamepass Games Insights Key Leave Live Combine Draft Fantasy Menu Games Menu Network Menu News Menu Playoffs Menu Pro Bowl Menu Shop Menu Standings Menu Stats Menu Super Bowl Menu Teams Menu Tickets Menu More Horizontal More Vertical My Location Network News Pause play Multiple Players Single Player Playlist Playoffs Pro Bowl Purge Refresh Remove Search Settings Share Android Share Copy URL Share Email Share Facebook Share Instagram Share iOS Share Snapchat Share Twitter Skip Next Skip Previous Standings Star Stats Swap Teams Tickets Video Visibility Off Visibility On Volume Hi Volume Low Volume Medium Volume Mute Warning Website Caret down Caret up At News Play Audio Gallery Promo Chevron right The browser you are using is no longer supported on this site. It is highly recommended that you use the latest versions of a supported browser in order to receive an optimal viewing experience. The following browsers are supported: Chrome, Edge (v80 and later), Firefox and Safari. Got it!