Today in Sports - Texas A&M QB Johnny Manziel becomes the first freshman to win the Heisman Trophy | AP News Menu World SECTIONS Israel-Hamas war Russia-Ukraine War Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa TOP STORIES Canada's Liberals fall short of a majority in Parliament in the wake of comeback election victory Takeaways from Canada's election: America's northern ally rejects Trump after he dominates race Vietnam celebrates 50 years since war’s end and focuses on peace Newsletters The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. The Afternoon Wire Get caught up on what you may have missed throughout the day. See All Newsletters U.S. SECTIONS Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths TOP STORIES The US government has a new policy for terminating international students' legal status Judge skeptical of Trump administration argument that federal courts can't review border declaration Harvard pledges reforms following internal reports on antisemitism and anti-Arab bias Newsletters The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. See All Newsletters AP QUIZZES Test Your News I.Q. — take today’s quiz Politics SECTIONS Florida election results Wisconsin election results White House Congress U.S. Supreme Court TOP STORIES Judge skeptical of Trump administration argument that federal courts can't review border declaration Trump greets Whitmer with a hug and gives her a win — new jets for Michigan airbase The US government has a new policy for terminating international students' legal status Newsletters Ground Game Exclusive insights and key stories from the world of politics. See All Newsletters Sports SECTIONS NBA MLB NHL WNBA NFL Auto Racing Soccer TOP STORIES Prank calls to other players unrelated to the one received by Shedeur Sanders, AP source says Haliburton and Pacers eliminate Bucks from playoffs, closing OT with 8-0 run to win 119-118 Pistons beat Knicks 106-103 in Game 5 to stay alive in the first-round series Newsletters AP Top 25 Poll Alerts Get email alerts for every college football Top 25 Poll release. The Sports Wire Your home base for in-depth reporting from the world of sports. See All Newsletters Entertainment SECTIONS Movie Reviews What to Stream Television Book Reviews Music Celebrity Interviews TOP STORIES This summer at the movies, superheroes, from ‘Superman’ to ‘Fantastic Four,’ return Movie Review: 'Thunderbolts' is Marvel, and Florence Pugh, in high gear Judge orders Trump administration to restore $12 million for pro-democracy Radio Free Europe Newsletters AP Entertainment Wire Get AP's first personalized newsletter delivering you entertainment news twice a week. See All Newsletters Business SECTIONS Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology TOP STORIES US consumer confidence plummets to Covid-era low as trade war stokes anxiety 'Nowhere to turn': Small businesses dependent on imports from China are feeling more desperate US job openings fall to 7.2 million in March, the lowest level since September Science SECTIONS Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine TOP STORIES Amazon launches its first internet satellites to compete against SpaceX's Starlinks NASA's oldest astronaut felt the decades melt away in space before returning on his 70th birthday A carnivorous 'bone collector' caterpillar dresses in the remains of its prey Fact Check TOP STORIES FACT FOCUS: Trump credited with rising military recruitment. Growth started before his reelection FACT FOCUS: Examining RFK Jr.'s claims about measles, autism and diet as head of HHS FACT FOCUS: Trump exaggerates revenue from tariffs Oddities TOP STORIES Runaway kangaroo on the loose named Sheila shuts down Alabama interstate Why a New York zoo is feeding a baby vulture with a hand puppet Speedboat that flipped midair in 200 mph crash wins race on Arizona lake A man airlifted from Japan's Mount Fuji returns to the slope days later and is rescued again Bloody fingers are just part of the game in this traditional German sport Bloody fingers are just part of the game in this traditional German sport Be Well TOP STORIES St. Louis dyemaker is racing to help food companies switch to natural colors Worries about flying seem to be taking off. Here's how to cope with in-flight anxiety A 6-hour morning routine? First, try a few simple habits to start your day Community, mentors and skill-building: Experts weigh the role of employee resource groups In the rapidly shifting world of work, many employees are unclear what’s expected of them How setting boundaries can improve your health at work Newsletters Newsletters AP News Alerts Keep your pulse on the news with breaking news alerts from The AP. The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. Ground Game Exclusive insights and key stories from the world of politics. Beyond the Story Executive Editor Julie Pace brings you behind the scenes of the AP newsroom. The Afternoon Wire Get caught up on what you may have missed throughout the day. AP Entertainment Wire Get AP's first personalized newsletter delivering you entertainment news twice a week. See All Newsletters Photography SECTIONS 2024 YEAR END PHOTOS Photo Essays Photography TOP STORIES Photos of a power outage in Spain and Portugal knocks out ATMs, subways and traffic signals AP PHOTOS: Thousands of Buddhists participate in Lotus Lantern Festival in South Korea For nearly 60 days, Israel has blocked food from Gaza. Palestinians struggle to feed their families Newsletters The World in Pictures Get The AP’s most compelling photographs sent directly to your inbox. See All Newsletters AP Investigations Climate SECTIONS Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus TOP STORIES Decision looming for Trump administration on first PFAS drinking water limits Brazilian justice orders government to seize lands with proven illegal deforestation Vineyards in NY wine country push sustainability as they adapt to climate change Health TOP STORIES FDA scrutiny of Novavax COVID-19 vaccine sparks uncertainty about other shots St. Louis dyemaker is racing to help food companies switch to natural colors Genetic medicine can leave people with rare mutations behind. But there's new hope Worries about flying seem to be taking off. Here's how to cope with in-flight anxiety Spring allergies are back. Here's how to check pollen levels and keep from sneezing Believers say microdosing psychedelics helps them. Scientists are trying to measure the claims Tech SECTIONS Artificial Intelligence Social Media TOP STORIES Take It Down Act, addressing nonconsensual deepfakes and 'revenge porn,' passes. What is it? Tech industry tried reducing AI's pervasive bias. Now Trump wants to end its 'woke AI' efforts Chinese singles are looking for love in video chats — with thousands following along in real time Lifestyle SECTIONS Food & Recipes Gardening Homes Travel Fashion Pets TOP STORIES For some Americans, the end of the Vietnam War after Saigon fell 50 years ago is still deeply felt The secret to a refreshing cocktail or mocktail might be growing in the garden Danish king arrives in Greenland as Trump eyes strategic Arctic island Religion TOP STORIES Giro d'Italia cycling race to go inside the Vatican's walls in homage to Pope Francis Middle East latest: Israel frees a Gaza medic detained since troops killed 15 rescue workers Who is Cardinal Becciu? Why isn't he participating in the conclave to elect a pope? Newsletters World of Faith Comprehensive global coverage of how religion shapes our world. See All Newsletters Español TOP STORIES La electricidad vuelve a España y Portugal. La causa del apagón es un misterio El desacreditado cardenal Becciu se retira del cónclave para elegir al papa El rey danés visita Groenlandia mientras Trump muestra interés en la estratégica isla ártica Juez duda de argumento del gobierno de EEUU de que tribunal no puede revisar declaración fronteriza Gobierno de EEUU tiene una nueva política para revocar estatus legal de estudiantes internacionales Standards Quizzes Press Releases My Account MORE World Israel-Hamas war Russia-Ukraine War Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Australia Middle East Global Elections U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths Politics Florida election results Wisconsin election results White House Congress U.S. Supreme Court Sports NBA MLB NHL WNBA NFL Auto Racing Soccer Entertainment Movie Reviews What to Stream Television Book Reviews Music Celebrity Interviews Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine Fact Check Oddities Be Well Newsletters Photography 2024 YEAR END PHOTOS Photo Essays Photography AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus Health Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Homes Travel Fashion Pets Religion Español Standards Quizzes Press Releases My Account Sign in Search Query Submit Search Show Search Menu Submit Search World Israel-Hamas war Russia-Ukraine War Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Australia Middle East Global Elections SECTIONS Israel-Hamas war Russia-Ukraine War Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa TOP STORIES Canada's Liberals fall short of a majority in Parliament in the wake of comeback election victory Takeaways from Canada's election: America's northern ally rejects Trump after he dominates race Vietnam celebrates 50 years since war’s end and focuses on peace Newsletters The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. The Afternoon Wire Get caught up on what you may have missed throughout the day. See All Newsletters U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths SECTIONS Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths TOP STORIES The US government has a new policy for terminating international students' legal status Judge skeptical of Trump administration argument that federal courts can't review border declaration Harvard pledges reforms following internal reports on antisemitism and anti-Arab bias Newsletters The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. See All Newsletters AP QUIZZES Test Your News I.Q. — take today’s quiz Politics Florida election results Wisconsin election results White House Congress U.S. Supreme Court SECTIONS Florida election results Wisconsin election results White House Congress U.S. Supreme Court TOP STORIES Judge skeptical of Trump administration argument that federal courts can't review border declaration Trump greets Whitmer with a hug and gives her a win — new jets for Michigan airbase The US government has a new policy for terminating international students' legal status Newsletters Ground Game Exclusive insights and key stories from the world of politics. See All Newsletters Sports NBA MLB NHL WNBA NFL Auto Racing Soccer SECTIONS NBA MLB NHL WNBA NFL Auto Racing Soccer TOP STORIES Prank calls to other players unrelated to the one received by Shedeur Sanders, AP source says Haliburton and Pacers eliminate Bucks from playoffs, closing OT with 8-0 run to win 119-118 Pistons beat Knicks 106-103 in Game 5 to stay alive in the first-round series Newsletters AP Top 25 Poll Alerts Get email alerts for every college football Top 25 Poll release. The Sports Wire Your home base for in-depth reporting from the world of sports. See All Newsletters Entertainment Movie Reviews What to Stream Television Book Reviews Music Celebrity Interviews SECTIONS Movie Reviews What to Stream Television Book Reviews Music Celebrity Interviews TOP STORIES This summer at the movies, superheroes, from ‘Superman’ to ‘Fantastic Four,’ return Movie Review: 'Thunderbolts' is Marvel, and Florence Pugh, in high gear Judge orders Trump administration to restore $12 million for pro-democracy Radio Free Europe Newsletters AP Entertainment Wire Get AP's first personalized newsletter delivering you entertainment news twice a week. See All Newsletters Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology SECTIONS Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology TOP STORIES US consumer confidence plummets to Covid-era low as trade war stokes anxiety 'Nowhere to turn': Small businesses dependent on imports from China are feeling more desperate US job openings fall to 7.2 million in March, the lowest level since September Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine SECTIONS Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine TOP STORIES Amazon launches its first internet satellites to compete against SpaceX's Starlinks NASA's oldest astronaut felt the decades melt away in space before returning on his 70th birthday A carnivorous 'bone collector' caterpillar dresses in the remains of its prey Fact Check TOP STORIES FACT FOCUS: Trump credited with rising military recruitment. Growth started before his reelection FACT FOCUS: Examining RFK Jr.'s claims about measles, autism and diet as head of HHS FACT FOCUS: Trump exaggerates revenue from tariffs Oddities TOP STORIES Runaway kangaroo on the loose named Sheila shuts down Alabama interstate Why a New York zoo is feeding a baby vulture with a hand puppet Speedboat that flipped midair in 200 mph crash wins race on Arizona lake A man airlifted from Japan's Mount Fuji returns to the slope days later and is rescued again Bloody fingers are just part of the game in this traditional German sport Bloody fingers are just part of the game in this traditional German sport Be Well TOP STORIES St. Louis dyemaker is racing to help food companies switch to natural colors Worries about flying seem to be taking off. Here's how to cope with in-flight anxiety A 6-hour morning routine? First, try a few simple habits to start your day Community, mentors and skill-building: Experts weigh the role of employee resource groups In the rapidly shifting world of work, many employees are unclear what’s expected of them How setting boundaries can improve your health at work Newsletters Newsletters AP News Alerts Keep your pulse on the news with breaking news alerts from The AP. The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. Ground Game Exclusive insights and key stories from the world of politics. Beyond the Story Executive Editor Julie Pace brings you behind the scenes of the AP newsroom. The Afternoon Wire Get caught up on what you may have missed throughout the day. AP Entertainment Wire Get AP's first personalized newsletter delivering you entertainment news twice a week. See All Newsletters Photography 2024 YEAR END PHOTOS Photo Essays Photography SECTIONS 2024 YEAR END PHOTOS Photo Essays Photography TOP STORIES Photos of a power outage in Spain and Portugal knocks out ATMs, subways and traffic signals AP PHOTOS: Thousands of Buddhists participate in Lotus Lantern Festival in South Korea For nearly 60 days, Israel has blocked food from Gaza. Palestinians struggle to feed their families Newsletters The World in Pictures Get The AP’s most compelling photographs sent directly to your inbox. See All Newsletters AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus SECTIONS Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus TOP STORIES Decision looming for Trump administration on first PFAS drinking water limits Brazilian justice orders government to seize lands with proven illegal deforestation Vineyards in NY wine country push sustainability as they adapt to climate change Health TOP STORIES FDA scrutiny of Novavax COVID-19 vaccine sparks uncertainty about other shots St. Louis dyemaker is racing to help food companies switch to natural colors Genetic medicine can leave people with rare mutations behind. But there's new hope Worries about flying seem to be taking off. Here's how to cope with in-flight anxiety Spring allergies are back. Here's how to check pollen levels and keep from sneezing Believers say microdosing psychedelics helps them. Scientists are trying to measure the claims Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media SECTIONS Artificial Intelligence Social Media TOP STORIES Take It Down Act, addressing nonconsensual deepfakes and 'revenge porn,' passes. What is it? Tech industry tried reducing AI's pervasive bias. Now Trump wants to end its 'woke AI' efforts Chinese singles are looking for love in video chats — with thousands following along in real time Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Homes Travel Fashion Pets SECTIONS Food & Recipes Gardening Homes Travel Fashion Pets TOP STORIES For some Americans, the end of the Vietnam War after Saigon fell 50 years ago is still deeply felt The secret to a refreshing cocktail or mocktail might be growing in the garden Danish king arrives in Greenland as Trump eyes strategic Arctic island Religion TOP STORIES Giro d'Italia cycling race to go inside the Vatican's walls in homage to Pope Francis Middle East latest: Israel frees a Gaza medic detained since troops killed 15 rescue workers Who is Cardinal Becciu? Why isn't he participating in the conclave to elect a pope? Newsletters World of Faith Comprehensive global coverage of how religion shapes our world. See All Newsletters Español TOP STORIES La electricidad vuelve a España y Portugal. La causa del apagón es un misterio El desacreditado cardenal Becciu se retira del cónclave para elegir al papa El rey danés visita Groenlandia mientras Trump muestra interés en la estratégica isla ártica Juez duda de argumento del gobierno de EEUU de que tribunal no puede revisar declaración fronteriza Gobierno de EEUU tiene una nueva política para revocar estatus legal de estudiantes internacionales Standards Quizzes Press Releases My Account The Associated Press is an independent global news organization dedicated to factual reporting. Founded in 1846, AP today remains the most trusted source of fast, accurate, unbiased news in all formats and the essential provider of the technology and services vital to the news business. More than half the world’s population sees AP journalism every day. twitter instagram facebook The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection More From AP News About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection More From AP News About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook SECTIONS About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook Copyright 2025 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. Menu World SECTIONS Israel-Hamas war Russia-Ukraine War Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa TOP STORIES Canada's Liberals fall short of a majority in Parliament in the wake of comeback election victory Takeaways from Canada's election: America's northern ally rejects Trump after he dominates race Vietnam celebrates 50 years since war’s end and focuses on peace Newsletters The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. The Afternoon Wire Get caught up on what you may have missed throughout the day. See All Newsletters U.S. SECTIONS Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths TOP STORIES The US government has a new policy for terminating international students' legal status Judge skeptical of Trump administration argument that federal courts can't review border declaration Harvard pledges reforms following internal reports on antisemitism and anti-Arab bias Newsletters The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. See All Newsletters AP QUIZZES Test Your News I.Q. — take today’s quiz Politics SECTIONS Florida election results Wisconsin election results White House Congress U.S. Supreme Court TOP STORIES Judge skeptical of Trump administration argument that federal courts can't review border declaration Trump greets Whitmer with a hug and gives her a win — new jets for Michigan airbase The US government has a new policy for terminating international students' legal status Newsletters Ground Game Exclusive insights and key stories from the world of politics. See All Newsletters Sports SECTIONS NBA MLB NHL WNBA NFL Auto Racing Soccer TOP STORIES Prank calls to other players unrelated to the one received by Shedeur Sanders, AP source says Haliburton and Pacers eliminate Bucks from playoffs, closing OT with 8-0 run to win 119-118 Pistons beat Knicks 106-103 in Game 5 to stay alive in the first-round series Newsletters AP Top 25 Poll Alerts Get email alerts for every college football Top 25 Poll release. The Sports Wire Your home base for in-depth reporting from the world of sports. See All Newsletters Entertainment SECTIONS Movie Reviews What to Stream Television Book Reviews Music Celebrity Interviews TOP STORIES This summer at the movies, superheroes, from ‘Superman’ to ‘Fantastic Four,’ return Movie Review: 'Thunderbolts' is Marvel, and Florence Pugh, in high gear Judge orders Trump administration to restore $12 million for pro-democracy Radio Free Europe Newsletters AP Entertainment Wire Get AP's first personalized newsletter delivering you entertainment news twice a week. See All Newsletters Business SECTIONS Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology TOP STORIES US consumer confidence plummets to Covid-era low as trade war stokes anxiety 'Nowhere to turn': Small businesses dependent on imports from China are feeling more desperate US job openings fall to 7.2 million in March, the lowest level since September Science SECTIONS Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine TOP STORIES Amazon launches its first internet satellites to compete against SpaceX's Starlinks NASA's oldest astronaut felt the decades melt away in space before returning on his 70th birthday A carnivorous 'bone collector' caterpillar dresses in the remains of its prey Fact Check TOP STORIES FACT FOCUS: Trump credited with rising military recruitment. Growth started before his reelection FACT FOCUS: Examining RFK Jr.'s claims about measles, autism and diet as head of HHS FACT FOCUS: Trump exaggerates revenue from tariffs Oddities TOP STORIES Runaway kangaroo on the loose named Sheila shuts down Alabama interstate Why a New York zoo is feeding a baby vulture with a hand puppet Speedboat that flipped midair in 200 mph crash wins race on Arizona lake A man airlifted from Japan's Mount Fuji returns to the slope days later and is rescued again Bloody fingers are just part of the game in this traditional German sport Bloody fingers are just part of the game in this traditional German sport Be Well TOP STORIES St. Louis dyemaker is racing to help food companies switch to natural colors Worries about flying seem to be taking off. Here's how to cope with in-flight anxiety A 6-hour morning routine? First, try a few simple habits to start your day Community, mentors and skill-building: Experts weigh the role of employee resource groups In the rapidly shifting world of work, many employees are unclear what’s expected of them How setting boundaries can improve your health at work Newsletters Newsletters AP News Alerts Keep your pulse on the news with breaking news alerts from The AP. The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. Ground Game Exclusive insights and key stories from the world of politics. Beyond the Story Executive Editor Julie Pace brings you behind the scenes of the AP newsroom. The Afternoon Wire Get caught up on what you may have missed throughout the day. AP Entertainment Wire Get AP's first personalized newsletter delivering you entertainment news twice a week. See All Newsletters Photography SECTIONS 2024 YEAR END PHOTOS Photo Essays Photography TOP STORIES Photos of a power outage in Spain and Portugal knocks out ATMs, subways and traffic signals AP PHOTOS: Thousands of Buddhists participate in Lotus Lantern Festival in South Korea For nearly 60 days, Israel has blocked food from Gaza. Palestinians struggle to feed their families Newsletters The World in Pictures Get The AP’s most compelling photographs sent directly to your inbox. See All Newsletters AP Investigations Climate SECTIONS Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus TOP STORIES Decision looming for Trump administration on first PFAS drinking water limits Brazilian justice orders government to seize lands with proven illegal deforestation Vineyards in NY wine country push sustainability as they adapt to climate change Health TOP STORIES FDA scrutiny of Novavax COVID-19 vaccine sparks uncertainty about other shots St. Louis dyemaker is racing to help food companies switch to natural colors Genetic medicine can leave people with rare mutations behind. But there's new hope Worries about flying seem to be taking off. Here's how to cope with in-flight anxiety Spring allergies are back. Here's how to check pollen levels and keep from sneezing Believers say microdosing psychedelics helps them. Scientists are trying to measure the claims Tech SECTIONS Artificial Intelligence Social Media TOP STORIES Take It Down Act, addressing nonconsensual deepfakes and 'revenge porn,' passes. What is it? Tech industry tried reducing AI's pervasive bias. Now Trump wants to end its 'woke AI' efforts Chinese singles are looking for love in video chats — with thousands following along in real time Lifestyle SECTIONS Food & Recipes Gardening Homes Travel Fashion Pets TOP STORIES For some Americans, the end of the Vietnam War after Saigon fell 50 years ago is still deeply felt The secret to a refreshing cocktail or mocktail might be growing in the garden Danish king arrives in Greenland as Trump eyes strategic Arctic island Religion TOP STORIES Giro d'Italia cycling race to go inside the Vatican's walls in homage to Pope Francis Middle East latest: Israel frees a Gaza medic detained since troops killed 15 rescue workers Who is Cardinal Becciu? Why isn't he participating in the conclave to elect a pope? Newsletters World of Faith Comprehensive global coverage of how religion shapes our world. See All Newsletters Español TOP STORIES La electricidad vuelve a España y Portugal. La causa del apagón es un misterio El desacreditado cardenal Becciu se retira del cónclave para elegir al papa El rey danés visita Groenlandia mientras Trump muestra interés en la estratégica isla ártica Juez duda de argumento del gobierno de EEUU de que tribunal no puede revisar declaración fronteriza Gobierno de EEUU tiene una nueva política para revocar estatus legal de estudiantes internacionales Standards Quizzes Press Releases My Account MORE World Israel-Hamas war Russia-Ukraine War Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Australia Middle East Global Elections U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths Politics Florida election results Wisconsin election results White House Congress U.S. Supreme Court Sports NBA MLB NHL WNBA NFL Auto Racing Soccer Entertainment Movie Reviews What to Stream Television Book Reviews Music Celebrity Interviews Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine Fact Check Oddities Be Well Newsletters Photography 2024 YEAR END PHOTOS Photo Essays Photography AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus Health Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Homes Travel Fashion Pets Religion Español Standards Quizzes Press Releases My Account Sign in Search Query Submit Search Show Search Menu Submit Search World Israel-Hamas war Russia-Ukraine War Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Australia Middle East Global Elections SECTIONS Israel-Hamas war Russia-Ukraine War Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa TOP STORIES Canada's Liberals fall short of a majority in Parliament in the wake of comeback election victory Takeaways from Canada's election: America's northern ally rejects Trump after he dominates race Vietnam celebrates 50 years since war’s end and focuses on peace Newsletters The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. The Afternoon Wire Get caught up on what you may have missed throughout the day. See All Newsletters U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths SECTIONS Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths TOP STORIES The US government has a new policy for terminating international students' legal status Judge skeptical of Trump administration argument that federal courts can't review border declaration Harvard pledges reforms following internal reports on antisemitism and anti-Arab bias Newsletters The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. See All Newsletters AP QUIZZES Test Your News I.Q. — take today’s quiz Politics Florida election results Wisconsin election results White House Congress U.S. Supreme Court SECTIONS Florida election results Wisconsin election results White House Congress U.S. Supreme Court TOP STORIES Judge skeptical of Trump administration argument that federal courts can't review border declaration Trump greets Whitmer with a hug and gives her a win — new jets for Michigan airbase The US government has a new policy for terminating international students' legal status Newsletters Ground Game Exclusive insights and key stories from the world of politics. See All Newsletters Sports NBA MLB NHL WNBA NFL Auto Racing Soccer SECTIONS NBA MLB NHL WNBA NFL Auto Racing Soccer TOP STORIES Prank calls to other players unrelated to the one received by Shedeur Sanders, AP source says Haliburton and Pacers eliminate Bucks from playoffs, closing OT with 8-0 run to win 119-118 Pistons beat Knicks 106-103 in Game 5 to stay alive in the first-round series Newsletters AP Top 25 Poll Alerts Get email alerts for every college football Top 25 Poll release. The Sports Wire Your home base for in-depth reporting from the world of sports. See All Newsletters Entertainment Movie Reviews What to Stream Television Book Reviews Music Celebrity Interviews SECTIONS Movie Reviews What to Stream Television Book Reviews Music Celebrity Interviews TOP STORIES This summer at the movies, superheroes, from ‘Superman’ to ‘Fantastic Four,’ return Movie Review: 'Thunderbolts' is Marvel, and Florence Pugh, in high gear Judge orders Trump administration to restore $12 million for pro-democracy Radio Free Europe Newsletters AP Entertainment Wire Get AP's first personalized newsletter delivering you entertainment news twice a week. See All Newsletters Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology SECTIONS Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology TOP STORIES US consumer confidence plummets to Covid-era low as trade war stokes anxiety 'Nowhere to turn': Small businesses dependent on imports from China are feeling more desperate US job openings fall to 7.2 million in March, the lowest level since September Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine SECTIONS Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine TOP STORIES Amazon launches its first internet satellites to compete against SpaceX's Starlinks NASA's oldest astronaut felt the decades melt away in space before returning on his 70th birthday A carnivorous 'bone collector' caterpillar dresses in the remains of its prey Fact Check TOP STORIES FACT FOCUS: Trump credited with rising military recruitment. Growth started before his reelection FACT FOCUS: Examining RFK Jr.'s claims about measles, autism and diet as head of HHS FACT FOCUS: Trump exaggerates revenue from tariffs Oddities TOP STORIES Runaway kangaroo on the loose named Sheila shuts down Alabama interstate Why a New York zoo is feeding a baby vulture with a hand puppet Speedboat that flipped midair in 200 mph crash wins race on Arizona lake A man airlifted from Japan's Mount Fuji returns to the slope days later and is rescued again Bloody fingers are just part of the game in this traditional German sport Bloody fingers are just part of the game in this traditional German sport Be Well TOP STORIES St. Louis dyemaker is racing to help food companies switch to natural colors Worries about flying seem to be taking off. Here's how to cope with in-flight anxiety A 6-hour morning routine? First, try a few simple habits to start your day Community, mentors and skill-building: Experts weigh the role of employee resource groups In the rapidly shifting world of work, many employees are unclear what’s expected of them How setting boundaries can improve your health at work Newsletters Newsletters AP News Alerts Keep your pulse on the news with breaking news alerts from The AP. The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. Ground Game Exclusive insights and key stories from the world of politics. Beyond the Story Executive Editor Julie Pace brings you behind the scenes of the AP newsroom. The Afternoon Wire Get caught up on what you may have missed throughout the day. AP Entertainment Wire Get AP's first personalized newsletter delivering you entertainment news twice a week. See All Newsletters Photography 2024 YEAR END PHOTOS Photo Essays Photography SECTIONS 2024 YEAR END PHOTOS Photo Essays Photography TOP STORIES Photos of a power outage in Spain and Portugal knocks out ATMs, subways and traffic signals AP PHOTOS: Thousands of Buddhists participate in Lotus Lantern Festival in South Korea For nearly 60 days, Israel has blocked food from Gaza. Palestinians struggle to feed their families Newsletters The World in Pictures Get The AP’s most compelling photographs sent directly to your inbox. See All Newsletters AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus SECTIONS Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus TOP STORIES Decision looming for Trump administration on first PFAS drinking water limits Brazilian justice orders government to seize lands with proven illegal deforestation Vineyards in NY wine country push sustainability as they adapt to climate change Health TOP STORIES FDA scrutiny of Novavax COVID-19 vaccine sparks uncertainty about other shots St. Louis dyemaker is racing to help food companies switch to natural colors Genetic medicine can leave people with rare mutations behind. But there's new hope Worries about flying seem to be taking off. Here's how to cope with in-flight anxiety Spring allergies are back. Here's how to check pollen levels and keep from sneezing Believers say microdosing psychedelics helps them. Scientists are trying to measure the claims Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media SECTIONS Artificial Intelligence Social Media TOP STORIES Take It Down Act, addressing nonconsensual deepfakes and 'revenge porn,' passes. What is it? Tech industry tried reducing AI's pervasive bias. Now Trump wants to end its 'woke AI' efforts Chinese singles are looking for love in video chats — with thousands following along in real time Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Homes Travel Fashion Pets SECTIONS Food & Recipes Gardening Homes Travel Fashion Pets TOP STORIES For some Americans, the end of the Vietnam War after Saigon fell 50 years ago is still deeply felt The secret to a refreshing cocktail or mocktail might be growing in the garden Danish king arrives in Greenland as Trump eyes strategic Arctic island Religion TOP STORIES Giro d'Italia cycling race to go inside the Vatican's walls in homage to Pope Francis Middle East latest: Israel frees a Gaza medic detained since troops killed 15 rescue workers Who is Cardinal Becciu? Why isn't he participating in the conclave to elect a pope? Newsletters World of Faith Comprehensive global coverage of how religion shapes our world. See All Newsletters Español TOP STORIES La electricidad vuelve a España y Portugal. La causa del apagón es un misterio El desacreditado cardenal Becciu se retira del cónclave para elegir al papa El rey danés visita Groenlandia mientras Trump muestra interés en la estratégica isla ártica Juez duda de argumento del gobierno de EEUU de que tribunal no puede revisar declaración fronteriza Gobierno de EEUU tiene una nueva política para revocar estatus legal de estudiantes internacionales Standards Quizzes Press Releases My Account The Associated Press is an independent global news organization dedicated to factual reporting. Founded in 1846, AP today remains the most trusted source of fast, accurate, unbiased news in all formats and the essential provider of the technology and services vital to the news business. More than half the world’s population sees AP journalism every day. twitter instagram facebook The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection More From AP News About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection More From AP News About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook SECTIONS About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook Copyright 2025 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. Sports Today in Sports - Texas A&M QB Johnny Manziel becomes the first freshman to win the Heisman Trophy By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit Dec. 8 1940 — The Chicago Bears beat the Washington Redskins 73-0 for the most one-sided victory in NFL Championship play. 1942 — Georgia’s Frank Sinkwich wins the Heisman Trophy. Sinkwich ends his career holding the Southeastern Conference record for total offense with 2,399 yards. 1948 — Southern Methodist junior Doak Walker wins the Heisman Trophy. Walker over three years scores 303 points, including 40 touchdowns and 60 points after touchdowns. 1961 — Philadelphia’s Wilt Chamberlain scores 78 points and grabs 43 rebounds in a 151-147 triple overtime loss to the Los Angeles Lakers. Elgin Baylor leads the Lakers with 63 points. 1963 — Cookie Gilchrist of the Buffalo Bills sets an AFL record with 243 yards rushing and ties a league record with five touchdowns in a 45-14 rout of the New York Jets. 1977 — Texas running back Earl Campbell wins the Heisman Trophy. 1987 — Ron Hextall of the Philadelphia Flyers becomes the first NHL goaltender to shoot a puck into the opposing goal in a 5-2 victory over the Boston Bruins. 2000 — Shaquille O’Neal sets an NBA record by going 0-for-11 from the free-throw line as the SuperSonics beat the Lakers 103-95. He broke Wilt Chamberlain’s record, who went 0-for-10 for Philadelphia against Detroit on Nov. 4, 1960. O’Neal had 26 points and 16 rebounds. Related Stories Players to watch in the Atlantic Coast Conference next season ACC and new North Carolina coach Bill Belichick head toward season after spring full of changes Players to watch next season in the Big 12 Conference 2002 — Oakland quarterback Rich Gannon sets an NFL record with his 10th 300-yard game of the season, throwing for 328 yards in the Raider 27-7 win over San Diego and breaking a tie with Dan Marino, Warren Moon and Kurt Warner. 2007 — Florida quarterback Tim Tebow becomes the first sophomore to win the Heisman Trophy. He beats out Arkansas running back Darren McFadden, the first player since 1949 to finish second in consecutive seasons. 2011 — Three-time NL MVP Albert Pujols agrees to a $254 million, 10-year contract with the Los Angeles Angels on the final day of baseball’s winter meetings. Pujols’ contract is the second-highest in baseball history and only the third to break the $200 million barrier, following Alex Rodriguez’s $252 million, 10-year deal with Texas before the 2001 season and A-Rod’s $275 million, 10-year contract with the Yankees before the 2008 season. 2011 — The NBA and players union reach financial agreement to end a 161-day lockout, shortening the season by 16 games. 2012 — Texas A&M quarterback Johnny Manziel becomes the first freshman to win the Heisman Trophy, taking college football’s top individual prize after a record-breaking debut. Notre Dame linebacker Manti Te’o finishes a distant second and Kansas State quarterback Collin Klein is third in the voting. 2013 — Zach Johnson rallies from four shots behind with eight holes to play and beats Tiger Woods, the No. 1 player in golf, at the World Challenge. Johnson holes out from a drop area for par on the last hole to force a playoff and wins when Woods misses a 5-foot par putt on the first extra hole. 2013 — Lydia Ko, a 16-year-old from New Zealand, rallies to win her first title as a professional. Ko, making her second pro start, wins the Swinging Skirts World Ladies Masters, closing with a 4-under 68 for a three-stroke victory over South Korea’s So Yeon Ryu. She won four pro events as an amateur, taking the Canadian Women’s Open the last two years. 2018 — Kyler Murray, Oklahoma, wins Heisman Trophy. 2022 — American basketball star Brittany Griner is released by Russian authorities in a prisoner exchange for Russian arms dealer Viktor Bout; Griner detained on drug smuggling charges since February 2022. _____ Most read Trump says Columbus Day will now just be Columbus Day Carney wins Canadian election, while Conservative leader loses his seat in Parliament Disgraced Cardinal Becciu formally withdraws from participation in conclave to elect pope The Associated Press is an independent global news organization dedicated to factual reporting. Founded in 1846, AP today remains the most trusted source of fast, accurate, unbiased news in all formats and the essential provider of the technology and services vital to the news business. More than half the world’s population sees AP journalism every day. The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection More From AP News About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection More From AP News About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook SECTIONS About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook Copyright 2025 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. twitter instagram facebook