Tour de France 2021 Stage 13, LIVE: Cavendish makes history, final results and classification | Marca Es noticia: Travis Kelce Taylor Swift Dak Prescott Brittany Mahomes Tom Brady Shedeur Sanders Bill Belichick Jordon Hudson Olivia Dunne Paige Buckers Vanessa Bryant Angel Reese Tyson Fury Paige Spiranac Meghan Markle Mega Millions Winning Numbers Horoscope Today Latest News 1702 Stimulus Payment CalFresh Recertification May Social Security Payment May 2025 2000 Stimulus Payment Portada de Marca Selected edition EN Editions: ES (Espańa) EN (English) MX (México) CO (Colombia) AR (Argentina) US (USA) Set your preferred edition for Marca.com Siempre que entres en Marca.com se cargará esta edición ES (Espańa) EN (English) MX (México) CO (Colombia) AR (Argentina) US (USA) Confirm Real Madrid Barcelona Spanish Football International Football Tokyo 2020 More Sports Lifestyle Home Volver a: More Sports News Formula 1 Golf IndyCar Nascar NCAA NHL Olympic Games PFL Tennis UFC WWE Más Cerrar En/more-sports Compartir en Facebook Compartir en Twitter Enviar por email MORE SPORTS Tour de France 2021 Tour de France 2021 Stage 13, LIVE: Cavendish makes history, final results and classification All the latest news from Stage 13 of the 2021 Tour de France, which runs from Nimes to Carcassonne Mark Cavendish celebrates as he wins the 13th stage of the Tour de France. CHRISTOPHE PETIT-TESSON EFE MARCA ENGLISH 09/07/2021 - 17:42 Compartir en Facebook Compartir en Twitter Compartir en Whatsapp Enviar por email Tour de France 2021. German rider Politt wins Tour de France Stage 12 in Nimes Tour de France 2021. Tadej Pogacar: An insatiable phenomenon W elcome to the 2021 Tour de France as the 13th day of cycling action comes to its climax. Stage 13 from Nimes to Carcassonne is 219.9km long over relatively flat terrain, so a bunch sprint is expected at the finish. On Thursday, Nils Politt won his first ever Tour de France stage after a brilliant solo effort. Tadej Pogacar retained his yellow jersey with a 5'18" lead over Rigoberto Uran in the overall Tour de France classification. Mark Cavendish heads the way in the points standings, so will wear the green jersey during Thursday's stage. Cavendish will be looking to equal Eddy Merckx 's record of 34 Tour de France stage wins. Tour de France, Stage 13 LIVE: Latest updates This is the beginning of our Tour de France live blog, with the most recent entries coming nearest the top. We'll have all the latest news, so follow along for the latest updates from Stage 13 of the 2021 Tour de France from Nimes to Carcassonne. Tour de France overall classification after Stage 13 Tadej Pogacar, UAE Team Emirates 52h 27' 12" Rigoberto Uran, EF Education Nippo +5'18" Jonas Vingegaard, Jumbo Visma +5'32" Richard Carapaz, Ineos Grenadiers +5'33" Ben O'Connor, AG2R Citroen +5'58 Wilco Kelderman, Bora-Hansgrohe +6'16" Alexey Lutsenko, Astana +6'30" Enric Mas, Movistar +7'11" Guillaume Martin, Cofidis +9'29" Pello Bilbao, Bahrain Victorious +10'28" Tour de France Stage 13 results Mark Cavendish has won his 34th Tour de France stage to equal Eddy Merckx's all-time record for most wins at cycling's most famous race. It was a crazy finish, with Cavendish out of position several times in the final kilometre. Crucially, he sprinted early enough to pip his Deceuninck-Quick-Step teammate Michael Morkov to the line. Tadej Pogacar retained his yellow jersey on a relatively calm day for the overall Tour de France leader. Mark Cavendish, Deceuninck-Quick-Step 5h 04' 29" Michael Morkov, Deceuninck-Quick-Step Jasper Philipsen, Alpecin-Fenix Ivan Garcia Cortina, Movistar Danny van Poppel, Intermarche Wanty-Gobert Materiaux Alex Aranburu Deba, Astana Premier-Tech Christophe Laporte, Cofidis Andre Greipel, Israel Start-up Nation Magnus Cort Nielsen, EF Education-Nippo Jasper Stuyven, Trek-Segafredo Finish: Cavendish wins! He's done it! Mark Cavendish wins to equal Eddy Merckx's record for all-time Tour de France stage victories. It was a super close, crazy finish. 1km to go: Perfectly set up for Cavendish Cavendish has three Deceuninck-Quick-Step teammates in front of him to lead him out. He's the big favourite to win the stage. Can anyone stop Cavendish? 3km to go: Finally the pace is on Deceuninck-Quick-Step have moved to the front alongside EF Education-Nippo as the pace finally ramps up. There are a few sprinters fighting for Mark Cavendish's wheel. 5km to go: A patient game Nobody wants to go to the front, which is a small surprise. It's a slow run-in at the moment. 8km to go: Nervousness in the peloton The yellow jersey and green jersey are right at the front of the bunch. Everyone is jostling for position as the technical Carcassonne finish approaches. No team is willing to take up the pace yet. 10km to go: Another step closer to Paris for Pogacar Tadej Pogacar has had another simple day in the saddle and he's at the sharp end of the peloton, keeping himself safe. He's looking good to retain the yellow jersey as the Pyrenees await at the weekend. 14km to go: Pace picks up The peloton are travelling very quickly and the crosswinds have caused the riders who have nothing left in the tank to fall behind the bunch. Ineos Grenadiers are doing a lot of the work. 18km to go: Pacher caught! It's game over for Quentin Pacher, who is finally caught. A great effort from the French rider, but it was always going to be nearly impossible to make it work with a solo effort today. Never has there been a bunch sprint in Carcassonne, but that's all about to change. 20km to go: A technical finish awaits The final 5km of the stage features a lot of twists and turns, so the organisers have decided to bring the "3km rule" forward to 4.5km. It means any crashes or punctures within the final 4.5km will not be penalised and everyone will get the same time as the winner. 23km to go: Alaphilippe leading the peloton The world champion Julian Alaphilippe is setting the pace at the front of the peloton and has trimmed the gap to Pacher down to 33". Everything is set up for Cavendish but don't rule out Sonny Colbrelli, Wout van Aert, Michael Matthews or Nacer Bouhanni to cause an upset. 26km to go: Bakelants reeled in Bakelants' attack didn't work as he's been caught by the peloton led by Deceuninck-Quick-Step. Meanwhile, Pacher has a lead of 1'09" which is highly unlikely to be enough to stay away all the way to the finish. 31km to go: Bakelants goes on the chase Jan Bakelants (Intermarche-Wanty-Gobert Materiaux) is making an effort to make it a two-rider breakaway. However, he has a gap of 1'05" to bridge to Pacher. 33km to go: One rider out in front The original breakaway had a trio of riders, but they were caught with 50km to go. Quentin Pacher (B&B Hotels p/b KTM) has managed to get away and currently has a lead of 55" over the peloton. 35km to go: Bike change for Cavendish A moment of panic for Mark Cavendish fans as he stops, but only to change his bike. He is already within touching distance of the back of the peloton. 40km to go: Yates out of the race Not too long ago, there was a massive crash involving several riders and it's forced Roger Kluge and Simon Yates to abandon the Tour de France. 44km to go: Stage 13 coming to its climax Welcome to our coverage of Stage 13 of the 2021 Tour de France. Today's stage looks like it will end in a bunch sprint, which is great news for Mark Cavendish as he aims to equal Eddy Merckx's record of 34 Tour de France stage wins. How to watch the Tour de France 2021? The 2021 Tour de France is available on NBC Sports in the USA, and they will be broadcasting every stage live. In the UK, the 2021 Tour de France is broadcast live on Eurosport 1 and ITV4. Marca English Football Pele's daughter: My father is fine, he is no longer in pain and will soon return home Cycling Former cyclist Chris Anker Sorensen dies after being hit by car Football Kevin-Prince Boateng condemns brother Jerome's actions: I despise violence against women Ver enlaces de interés Latest Sports News NFL Scores Super Bowl Winners List NFL Schedule MLB Scores Super Bowl news NBA Winners List NFL Standings MLB Schedule NFL Teams NBA Scores NBA Schedule NBA Teams NFL News Fantasy Football Cargando siguiente contenido Other Unidad Editorial sites Marca App Marca Clasificación LaLiga Calendario LaLiga Hemeroteca Marca MARCA TV Life and Style Ocio - Tiramillas Moda - Telva Callejero / Restaurantes Traductor Health Farmacia - Correo Farmacéutico CuídatePlus Medicina - Diario Médico Employment Masters - Escuela Unidad Editorial Unidad Editorial Trabajo - Expansión y Empleo Economía - Expansión © Unidad Editorial Información Deportiva, S.L.U. Todos los derechos reservados. Terms of service [ES] Privacy [ES] Cookies policy [ES] OJD certified [ES] Contact [ES] Advertising Help [ES] Our team [ES] Syndication [ES] Follow us Facebook Twitter RSS [EN]