Spain 0-1 Switzerland BBC Sport world-cup-2010 IN ASSOCIATION WITH Navigation Sport Football World Cup 2010 Groups & Teams Fixtures & Results Spain 0-1 Switzerland Commentary Report By Jonathan Stevenson 14:35 Commentary Sometimes the snow comes down in June, Sometimes the sun goes 'round the moon, Just when I thought our chance had passed, You go and save the best for last. 14:37 Commentary In a couple of hours time, we’ll be a quarter of the way through the World Cup. Frightening, isn’t it? Welcome back to South Africa with me, Jonathan Stevenson, as we take a first look at another of the sides capable of winning the greatest prize in sport: Spain. 14:38 Commentary Spain v Switzerland line-ups: Spain: Casillas, Sergio Ramos, Puyol, Pique, Capdevila, Busquets, Silva, Alonso, Xavi, Iniesta, Villa. Subs: Valdes, Albiol, Marchena, Torres, Fabregas, Mata, Arbeloa, Pedro, Llorente, Javi Martinez, Jesus Navas, Reina. Switzerland: Benaglio, Lichtsteiner, Senderos, Grichting, Ziegler, Barnetta, Inler, Huggel, Fernandes, Derdiyok, Nkufo. Subs: Wolfli, Magnin, Von Bergen, Padalino, Yakin, Bunjaku, Schwegler, Eggiman, Shaqiri, Leoni. Referee: Howard Webb (England) 14:40 Commentary Spain v Switzerland team news: Playmaker Andres Iniesta starts for Spain against Switzerland after recovering from a thigh injury but Cesc Fabregas and Fernando Torres are only on the bench. Iniesta and David Silva will play either side of lone striker David Villa, with Xavi, Xabi Alonso and Sergio Busquets in midfield. For Switzerland , record scorer Alexander Frei is only on the bench after arriving in South Africa with an ankle injury. Blaise N’Kufo takes his place in attack ahead of a five-man midfield. 14:43 Commentary Got anything to say about the World Cup? Yeah, I’ll bet you have. Why not share it with the group via text to 81111 (UK) or +44 7786200666 (worldwide) , via Twitter @Stevo_football or via the 606 page? Easy as. 14:45 Commentary Frankly, this Spain team cannot get involved in the World Cup too early for my liking. What they are all about is largely what has been missing (though Chile were pretty decent just now): incisive passing, top-class movement, cheeky one-twos, clinical finishing. Any match that sees Xabi Alonso , Andres Iniesta , Xavi , David Silva and David Villa all starting has got to be worth watching, hasn’t it? 14:47 Commentary The Swiss haven’t just turned up to lose, though. Here’s Philippe Senderos , whose Spanish dad might be going through all sorts of emotions this afternoon: “We don't fear Spain but I think they are favourites and we respect them. We are a small nation but we will go out on the pitch with the same mentality as always, looking to go forward and score." 606 From Loyal2Bournemouth: "As someone with Swiss family I think people are under-estimating Switzerland a tad ahead of the game. They are defensively sound and have it in them to frustrate Spain. This will be no whitewash. Hoppe Suisse! (translation-'Come on Switzerland!')." SMS From Anon (but let's face it, could be almost anyone): "The twins of beautiful football are playing together again, Xavi and Iniesta. Look at the starting line-up and then look at the bench. Wow." 14:54 Commentary The teams are out in Durban and after the anthems, the last two teams in the competition will get their World Cup campaigns under way. 14:57 Commentary Marvellous. Vicente del Bosque and Ottmar Hitzfeld exchange pleasantries, the players shake hands and we're moments away from kick off inside the Moses Mabhida Stadium. Twitter From SportReviewShow: "Huge game for England. Best of luck Howard Webb and co." 15:00 KICK-OFF As we get under way, it’s worth reminding ourselves of something the legendary Zinedine Zidane , who played for Real Madrid for five years, once said: “The day Spain begin winning they won’t stop doing so.” The world has been duly warned. 2 mins Commentary I'll let you know when Switzerland touch the ball, shall I? 4 mins Commentary I like the look of this Switzerland side, will be interesting to see how many chances Spain can create against them. Early on they seem happy to let Spain have most of the ball, though in fairness they probably couldn't do much about that anyway. 5 mins Commentary Sergio Ramos is penalised after a lovely move almost creates a crossing opportunity for David Silva down the right. Ramos is frustrated, but gives the Jabulani a kiss before handing it over. Nice to see the World Cup ball getting some love. 606 From Colonol Charisma: "Inler, Barnetta, Derdiyok, a few very talented players in that Swiss squad, and you can never rule out a side managed by Ottmar Hitzfeld." 9 mins Commentary Switzerland's best chances may come from set-pices, but a corner from their right is easily headed away by Xabi Alonso. At the other end, David Villa's touch is a bit heavy and Diego Benaglio races from his line to gather. Contributor BBC Sport's Mick McCarthy "I think Spain will keep it narrow in midfield and try to get the full-backs forward into wide positions. Switzerland won't mind that because they'll back their defence to deal with crosses into the box." 14 mins Commentary Spain are doing their usual probing away, playing little passes inside their opponents' half, searching for an opening. They'll be patient, no doubt about it. 17 mins Commentary David Silva fires in the first shot of the game, but it's a bit tame and from an angle on the left and Diego Benaglio gathers very comfortably. The play is all in the Swiss half. SMS Mark, clutching at straws in Grays: "Omens from 1966 - Spain as reigning European champs played Switzerland in their group. They won 2-1, then finished third." 21 mins Commentary There is an enhanced match stats service for you as well, and that's telling us Spain have had 70% possession so far. 22 mins Commentary Andres Iniesta, he of very few goals, lets fly from 25 yards, but it takes a deflection and sails into the arms of Diego Benaglio, who has not been unduly tested thus far. Contributor BBC Radio 5 live's Chris Waddle "What I like about Spain - and it's something England could learn a lot from, among others - is that they're not afraid to pass to a team-mate who is marked. They have utter belief in their ability to beat their man, to keep the ball, to recycle possession. They are so, so impressive." 24 mins Commentary That's more like it from the Euro 2008 champions. Andres Iniesta sees and then plays a brilliant pass into the box for Gerard Pique and he shows wonderfully nimble footwork to dance inside a defender before seeing a shot really well saved by a sprawling Diego Benaglio. 26 mins Commentary Xavi raises his foot high and Switzerland have a free-kick in a great position, 25 yards out, right of centre. Reto Ziegler fires it in, but Iker Casillas saves low down to his left. Contributor BBC World Service's Farayi Mungazi On Twitter: "Plenty of Bafana Bafana fans outside Loftus looking for tickets. Good luck to them!" 29 mins Commentary Philippe Senderos is having some treatment off the pitch, not sure what the problem is, but the Swiss need to get back to 11 as quickly as possible. 30 mins YELLOW CARD Andres Iniesta collects a pass over the top from David Silva and as he tries to turn into space, he goes down under a challenge from Stephane Grichting. The Swiss is booked, harshly, but Spain have a free-kick right on the edge of the box. 31 mins Commentary David Villa blasts the free-kick at the wall and it flies behind for a corner, which the Swiss defend very well. 606 From Rafabio: "Fabregas has scored the same amount of goals this season as Iniesta, Xavi, Alonso and Silva put together (19 goals). Unless Fabregas is seriously unfit then he should be in this team!" 36 mins SUBSTITUTION Joan Capdevila swings over a cross from the Spain left and David Villa just cannot get a proper header goalwards under pressure from a defender. Sad sight moments later as Philippe Senderos, whose dad is Spanish, remember, limps off and is replaced by Steve von Bergen. 38 mins Commentary Spain are starting to exert some pressure, but Switzerland are holding firm. If they could get to the break goalless, this one's really up for grabs. 40 mins Commentary Spain have had 68% of the ball so far, but in truth they've done little with it. Looking for more of a spark from the pre-tournament favourites in Durban. SMS Rick in Brighton: "Spain certainly aren't having any problems with the Jabulani. They're controlling it and weighting their passes excellently, not an over-hit pass in sight. Maybe the other teams are just not that good?" 44 mins Commentary David Villa beats the offside trap and tees up Andres Iniesta 22 yards out, but his right-foot shot balloons miles over the crossbar. Contributor BBC Radio 5 live's Chris Waddle "If I were Vicente del Bosque, at half-time I'd say 'Look we've dominated the game, but I need a bit more from the front three'. Spain have controlled possession, but all of it has been in front of the Switzerland defence rather than behind them. Credit to the Swiss, they've been disciplined and they've been organised, but I've just not seen enough from the Spanish frontmen. And, of course, Fernando Torres is on the bench…" 45 mins Commentary David Villa finds space down the Spain left this time and he cuts inside a defender only to strangely scoop the ball up and over David Silva and into no-man's land for Switzerland to clear. 15:46 HALF-TIME Spain 0-0 Switzerland Keep the faith, it'll happen. Contributor BBC Sport's Alan Shearer "I don't know how long Switzerland can play like that for because it's hard enough playing when you've got the ball. Every time they get it they launch it long and give it straight back to Spain." Twitter From BishBoshFooty: "Forget Torres and Fabregas - Pedro is the man that can change this for Spain... a goal-threat and goal-maker from out wide." SMS From Olie in Southampton: "Switzerland have produced a fantastic defensive performance, but Spain looked strong at the end of the first half, perhaps the Swiss are tiring. Addition of Fabregas and Torres after 15 mins of second half may prove to be decisive." 15:57 Commentary Argentina coach Diego Maradona: "Pele has to go back to the museum. Regarding Michel Platini, I always had a very distant relationship with him - hello and goodbye. We know how the French are and Platini is French and he thinks of himself as being more than the rest of the world. I've never paid him any attention and I won't do it now." 16:01 Commentary We are back under way at the magnificent Moses Mabhida Stadium in Durban. Two Spain fans are holding up a banner which reads 'Fabregas - always a Gunner'. Real Madrid supporters, maybe? 46 mins Commentary Good intent from the start as Xabi Alonso plays a nice ball out to the Spain right and David Silva runs at his marker, forcing a corner. From the set-piece, it drops to Xabi Alonso 20 yards out but he sends the Jabulani into orbit. 606 From Mendeth: "No matter how good a team you are, scoring multiple goals when your opposition has 11 men in their own half for 75% of the match is nigh on impossible." 50 mins Commentary Andres Iniesta does well to beat a man down the left, but his final ball is poor. It comes out to Xabi Alonso again and his shot is deflected over via the head of Stephane Grichting. 51 mins Commentary The shooting is just horrible. Carles Puyol heads a cross to the edge of the box and David Silva shoots woefully wide from 20 yards. 52 mins GOAL Spain 0-1 Switzerland Not an easy one to describe, that - but what a scoreline we have on our hands in Durban. A long ball is flicked on and suddenly Eren Derdiyok is through - he falls over in a coming together with Iker Casillas and Gerard Pique cannot clear the ball inside his own six-yard box as Gelson Fernandes slots it into the empty net. 54 mins Commentary Now we'll see how good Spain really are - what a test for Vicente del Bosque's team this is so early on in the tournament. Contributor BBC Sport's Mick McCarthy "Xabi Alonso and Sergio Busquets are both sitting in that midfield for Spain and I don't think it's neccessary. One of them could do it and they could get another attacker on." 58 mins Commentary Andres Iniesta tees up David Villa 18 yards out, but his shot is easily saved to his left by Diego Benaglio. They aren't getting close enough to the Swiss goal, Spain. 60 mins Commentary Sergio Ramos gets his head on to an outswinging Xavi free-kick, but it's on to the roof of the net. How long can the Spanish leave Cesc Fabregas, Pedro and Fernando Torres on the bench? 62 mins SUBSTITUTION Diego Benaglio does really well to race off his line and thwart David Villa, the first time the striker threatened to have a one-on-one with the keeper. Spain make a double change, with Sergio Busquets replaced by Fernando Torres and David Silva off for Jesus Navas. 63 mins Commentary I think everyone thought that was in. Spain are playing with urgency now and David Villa lays the ball off to Andres Iniesta 20 yards out, only for the Barca man to curl wide of Diego Benaglio's left-hand post. Contributor BBC Radio 5 live's Chris Waddle "You can't explain what's happened out there - that's the wonder of football. Switzerland have had one chance, they've taken it, and otherwise all they've done is defend. Fair play to them. Saying that, there's a fair while to go yet." SMS Cate in Peterborough: "Am I the first to say Spain, the perennial tournament underachievers?" Yes you are. 68 mins Commentary David Villa on the left sends over a pass for Fernando Torres, but the ball is slightly behind him and he turns and fires a shot over the bar from the edge of the box. Spain are looking more threatening, but they are running out of time. 70 mins HITS THE WOODWORK Penny for Cesc Fabregas's thoughts as he sits on the bench. Xabi Alonso fairly hammers a right-foot shot from 18 yards that crashes down off the underside of the bar and bounces away to safety. Spain are getting closer. 72 mins Commentary Sevilla's Jesus Navas has looked super lively since he came on and he touches a Xavi pass inside his marker on the right and shoots goalwards, but it's another routine save for Diego Benaglio. The clock's ticking. 73 mins YELLOW CARD Jesus Navas gets the wrong side of Reto Ziegeler and the Swiss left-back pulls him back, picking up a yellow card in the process. 75 mins HITS THE WOODWORK Unbelievable. Switzerland go so, so close to doubling their lead as Eren Derdiyok twists and turns brilliantly inside a couple of defenders - it's a stunning run and after one shot comes back off the post, his rebound effort cannons into Gerard Pique. Incredible stuff. 76 mins Commentary Andres Iniesta goes down after a strong challenge from Stephan Lichtsteiner and he needs some treatment off the pitch. 77 mins SUBSTITUTION Spain bring Pedro on for Andres Iniesta, who trudges away. Let's hope it's not a serious injury, because that boy's had enough of them this season. 79 mins Commentary It's now shoot on sight for Spain and from the right-hand corner of the 18-yard box Jesus Navas spanks a shot inches wide of Diego Benaglio's right-hand post. 606 From Wilsbowski: "First match I've been unable to take my eyes off. Unfortunately I'm at work and my bosses eyes keep looking my way..." 82 mins Commentary There's a buzz of anticipation every time Spain get forward, and it isn't the vuvuzelas. But Switzerland are dangerous still and Tranquillo Barnetta hammers a right-footer just over from 20 yards. This is compelling. 84 mins Commentary Since he got booked, Reto Ziegler has played Jesus Navas brilliantly - instead of rushing in, he's just blocking the cross and it's working very nicely indeed. This would be an enormous shock. 86 mins Commentary Jesus Navas fires in a cross from the right (I know) but it's too close to the keeper and Diego Benaglio gathers well. He's been faultless, the Swiss stopper. 87 mins Commentary Jesus Navas sends over another cross from the right (for goodness sake) and Fernando Torres can only volley over from 14 yards. This is turning into an evening of immense frustration for Spain and they've been here before at World Cups. Contributor BBC Sport's Mick McCarthy "Spain look like they ran out of ideas 10 minutes ago." 90 mins INJURY TIME Not sure the Swiss will be too pleased - we've just started five minutes of injury time in Durban. 90 mins SUBSTITUTION Switzerland waste some time by bringing Tranquillo Barnetta off and sending on Mario Eggimann. 90 mins Commentary Under pressure amid a posse of bodies, Diego Benaglio punches clear. Howard Webb gives a free-kick to the keeper for absolutely nothing. Not long left now and we have our first major shock of the World Cup on our hands. 90 mins Commentary Xabi Alonso's free-kick is low and poor and the pressure is eased on the Swiss. Seconds left... 16:52 FULL-TIME Spain 0-1 Switzerland That is a stunning result. Congratulations to the Swiss, but where do heavily-fancied Spain go from here? Astonishing. Contributor BBC Sport's Gary Lineker "Spain had won 45 out of 48 games prior to that and Switzerland hardly had a kick all game. Just goes to show that in football, you never, ever know." Contributor BBC Sport's Clarence Seedorf "They played like they would score sooner or later, Spain - I just didn't see enough from them to make it happen." 16:59 Commentary Our friends at Infostrada Sports tell us no other team in the World Cup had as many shots in their opening game as Spain. They had 22 in total without beating Diego Benaglio. SMS From Liam: "I think this puts our [England's] result in perspective. It's going to be hard work playing against some of these lesser teams and I don't think our lads deserve the slating they are getting from the media right now. There hasn't been a team I can't see us beating. Keep the faith." Twitter From Robi1993: "That's what you get when you pick your goalkeeper on reputation and not on current form. Awful goalkeeping by Casillas." 606 From 11_giggsy_11: "I don't like those tactics on a regular basis from teams. But once in a while, those kind of tactics from the Swiss are necessary and when well executed, they deserve the praise they get." 17:11 Commentary Spain coach Vicente del Bosque: "We tried in an orthodox way and in an heroic way but we were not able to source a goal. It wasn't our day. We dominated almost all the match. We will have to win the other two matches." SMS From Vinod: "Euro champs were knocked out in first round in 2002 and 2006. Will Spain make it three in-a-row for Euro champs exit?" 17:20 Commentary So, it fell to the last match of the first round of the World Cup to provide its outstanding moment. I'll be back in a bit as we go again, with the host nation back in action. There's even more at stake. 17:24 Commentary Back in London, Sam Lyon is all over the build-up to South Africa v Uruguay which kicks off at 1930 BST. I'll be back to bring you the game, so see you then. By Sam Sheringham World Cup favourites Spain suffered a shock defeat by Switzerland as South Africa 2010 served up its first major upset . The European champions enjoyed almost total control of the game in Durban but were wasteful in front of goal and went behind after 52 minutes when a long ball eventually found its way through to Gelson Fernandes, who, after a series of errors, bundled it into the net. With Barcelona trio David Villa, Andres Iniesta and Xavi unable to conjure a breakthrough, coach Vicente Del Bosque threw on Fernando Torres, Jesus Navas and Pedro, but to no avail as the Spanish slumped to only their second defeat in 49 games. The result piles pressure on Spain, who were widely-tipped to finally end decades of underachievement on the game's biggest stage and Del Bosque's men could now be forced to face Brazil in the second round if they finish Group H as runners-up. Chile beat Honduras 1-0 in the earlier match. For the unfancied Swiss, it was a historic first victory over the Spanish and another triumph in the glittering career of their German coach Ottmar Hitzveld. Del Bosque's men had quickly settled into their rhythmic short passing game and, with Switzerland struggling to get the ball out of their own half, the match came to resemble a training session. The first real opening fell to Spain right-back Sergio Ramos, who received the ball in space on the right before dragging his shot wastefully wide, much to the anger of his better-placed team-mates Xavi and David Villa. Moments later, Iniesta slipped a pass through to Gerard Pique, who cut inside his man before firing straight at goalkeeper Diego Benaglio. The next attack saw David Silva chip a delightful ball over the Switzerland defence for Iniesta, who was brought down on the edge of the area as he tried to get his shot away. Villa fired the resultant free-kick straight at the wall. The Swiss were forced into a change midway through the half when former Arsenal defender Philippe Senderos limped off with a foot injury and was replaced by Steve Von Bergen. Lone striker Villa looked skilful and lively, but when he finally found space in the box, he opted to pass, and chipped tamely across the face of goal. The second half began in a similar vein until the Swiss took the lead with the first real attack of the game. A long goal-kick was flicked through to Eren Derdiyok, who bundled it past goalkeeper Iker Casillas and the falling Pique to leave former Manchester City midfielder Fernandes with a simple finish. Spain, who won all 10 of their World Cup qualifiers, looked visibly shaken and Del Bosque responded by sending on Torres and Navas just after the hour mark. Iniesta and Torres both curled shots wide before former Liverpool midfielder Xabi Alonso almost broke the crossbar with a stunning strike from just outside the area. With Spain committing more men forward, the game became stretched and Switzerland came within a whisker of taking a 2-0 lead when Derdiyok cut inside Pique and Carles Puyol before flicking a shot which had Casillas beaten but bounced back off the post. The last 10 minutes were a predictable Spanish onslaught but, with Torres looking rusty on his return from knee surgery, Spain seemed to run out of ideas as their efforts became increasingly desperate. As it was, Switzerland held firm for a truly memorable victory - their first in a World Cup opener since 1954. Teams Match stats Group Standings Spain 0-1 Switzerland FT (HT 0-0) Fernandes , 52 Spain 01 Casillas Captain 03 Pique 05 Puyol 11 Capdevila 15 Sergio Ramos 06 Iniesta ( Pedrito , 77) 08 Xavi 14 Alonso 16 Busquets ( Torres , 61) 21 Silva ( G Jesus Navas , 61) 07 Villa Switzerland 01 Benaglio Yellow card 02 Lichtsteiner 04 Senderos ( Von Bergen , 35) 13 Grichting Yellow card 17 Ziegler Yellow card 06 Huggel 07 Barnetta ( Eggiman , 90+2) 08 Inler Captain 16 Fernandes 10 Nkufo 19 Derdiyok ( Yakin , 79 Yellow card ) Substitutes: 12 Valdes , 23 Reina , 02 Albiol , 04 Marchena , 17 Arbeloa , 10 Fabregas , 20 Javi Martinez , 22 G Jesus Navas , 09 Torres , 13 Mata , 18 Pedrito , 19 Llorente Substitutes: 12 Wolfli , 21 Leoni , 03 Magnin , 05 Von Bergen , 22 Eggiman , 14 Padalino , 15 Yakin , 20 Schwegler , 23 Shaqiri , 18 Bunjaku Venue: Moses Mabhida Stadium Referee: Howard  Webb Attendance: 62,453 Spain Switzerland Possession 67% 33% Attempts on target 10 3 Attempts off target 12 3 Corners 12 3 Fouls 8 18 Projected table based on current scores A B C D E F G H Group A Group A teams P W D L F A GD PTS Uruguay 3 2 1 0 4 0 4 7 Mexico 3 1 1 1 3 2 1 4 South Africa 3 1 1 1 3 5 -2 4 France 3 0 1 2 1 4 -3 1 Group B Group B teams P W D L F A GD PTS Argentina 3 3 0 0 7 1 6 9 South Korea 3 1 1 1 5 6 -1 4 Greece 3 1 0 2 2 5 -3 3 Nigeria 3 0 1 2 3 5 -2 1 Group C Group C teams P W D L F A GD PTS USA 3 1 2 0 4 3 1 5 England 3 1 2 0 2 1 1 5 Slovenia 3 1 1 1 3 3 0 4 Algeria 3 0 1 2 0 2 -2 1 Group D Group D teams P W D L F A GD PTS Germany 3 2 0 1 5 1 4 6 Ghana 3 1 1 1 2 2 0 4 Australia 3 1 1 1 3 6 -3 4 Serbia 3 1 0 2 2 3 -1 3 Group E Group E teams P W D L F A GD PTS Netherlands 3 3 0 0 5 1 4 9 Japan 3 2 0 1 4 2 2 6 Denmark 3 1 0 2 3 6 -3 3 Cameroon 3 0 0 3 2 5 -3 0 Group F Group F teams P W D L F A GD PTS Paraguay 3 1 2 0 3 1 2 5 Slovakia 3 1 1 1 4 5 -1 4 New Zealand 3 0 3 0 2 2 0 3 Italy 3 0 2 1 4 5 -1 2 Group G Group G teams P W D L F A GD PTS Brazil 3 2 1 0 5 2 3 7 Portugal 3 1 2 0 7 0 7 5 Ivory Coast 3 1 1 1 4 3 1 4 North Korea 3 0 0 3 1 12 -11 0 Group H Group H teams P W D L F A GD PTS Spain 3 2 0 1 4 2 2 6 Chile 3 2 0 1 3 2 1 6 Switzerland 3 1 1 1 1 1 0 4 Honduras 3 0 1 2 0 3 -3 1 Get involved SMS: Text us on +44 7786200666 Twitter: Tag your tweets with #BBCWorldCup 606 : Comment and debate World Cup Have Your Say : Join the BBC's global football conversation Related links BBC Sport football blogs BBC World Cup Photo Album Fifa World Cup 2010 World Cup 2010 Teams Algeria Argentina Australia Brazil Cameroon Chile Denmark England France Germany Ghana Greece Honduras Italy Ivory Coast Japan Mexico Netherlands New Zealand Nigeria North Korea Paraguay Portugal Serbia Slovakia Slovenia South Africa South Korea Spain Switzerland USA Uruguay Skip to top PRODUCTS & SERVICES E-mail news Mobiles Widgets & Alerts News feeds Podcasts A-Z of Sports American Football Archery Athletics Badminton Baseball Basketball Bowls Boxing Canoeing Cricket Cycling Darts Disability sport Diving Equestrian Fencing Football Formula 1 Gaelic Games Golf Gymnastics Handball Hockey Horse Racing Ice Hockey Judo Modern Pentathlon MotoGP Motorsport Netball Rowing Rugby League Rugby Union Sailing Shooting Snooker Squash Swimming Table Tennis Taekwondo Tennis Triathlon Volleyball Weightlifting Winter Sports Wrestling