Reddit - The heart of the internet Skip to main content Open menu Open navigation Go to Reddit Home r/Avatar A chip A close button Get App Get the Reddit app Log In Log in to Reddit Expand user menu Open settings menu Go to Avatar r/Avatar r/Avatar Thanks for the 700K Na'vi! The home of Avatar on Reddit! Your source for news, art, comments, insights and more on the beautiful and dangerous world of Pandora. Meet fellow Avatar fans and discuss the films, games, novels, comics and more. Zola'u nìprrte', and make yourself at Home(tree!) Members Online • [deleted] Back in 2009, film critic and director Christophe Gans ('Brotherhood of the Wolf', 'Silent Hill') made a love letter to Avatar and James Cameron. Here it is, finally translated in English Avatar (2009) Context : In December 2009, shortly after the first Avatar movie was released, Christophe Gans appeared in a video to share his thoughts on the movie, his analysis, and also his praise for James Cameron: The video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pqOg-lvTFbY Christophe Gans is best known as a filmmaker - he directed Crying Freeman , Brotherhood of the Wolf , Silent Hill , and is working on a new Silent Hill movie - but he originally started as a film critic and founded the Starfix magazine in 1983, specialized in genre movies (sci-fi, horror, Hong-Kong cinema, etc.) This interview raised a lot of great points and taught me a lot about James Cameron. I dare say it made me even more of a fan so I've always wanted to share it. Unfortunately it's in French and doesn't come with English subtitles. I figured no one else would transcribe and translate the video for me so, years later I finally did it. I did the translation for free so it might not be perfect, feel free to point out any potential mistakes. When you see a film as rich, as complex as this one - under the allure of a universal fable - the first thing is to organize all the ideas, all the reactions, all the sensations you may have had during the screening. This is perhaps an old reflex from my years as a film critic, but it's clear that there are two types of films. First, what I'd call concrete films, I mean films that are a project in themselves. And then there are transverse films. This is perhaps James Cameron's first transverse film. James Cameron has always made films with a very precise project. You can embrace them, you can almost make a sales pitch for them very easily. Avatar is the first film that's the sum of everything he's done before, and at the same time the sum of a certain number of things that are in the air at the moment, particularly in Hollywood... I mean, this particular moment when we are at the beginning of a new technology - digital technology - which we know will replace conventional cinema - I mean, in the next few years. We're in that kind of climate, which Avatar sort of grasps and structures in an insane way. We all know that James Cameron has the ability in Hollywood to start absolutely crazy projects and have people give him all the cash to make them. Recently I was reading an article where someone compared him to Stanley Kubrick and they said, very accurately, that unlike Cameron, Stanley Kubrick didn't always manage to have the industry follow him. It's clear that Cameron has this entrepreneurial ability, and it's clear that the film is perhaps a kind of prototype of what we might see in the coming years. But not the next next few years. We know we're getting a glimpse of something that may not be fully realized for another... 30 or 40 years. The film really projects us into the future of cinema. One surprising thing is that twelve years ago, James Cameron made Titanic , which was in my opinion the testament of classical cinema. It was the last great film in David Lean's style - or Griffith's style, one could say, to go back even further - I mean a film that represents what cinema has always been since its origins, which is an art at the confluence of painting and literature, with an immense romantic feeling, etc. And it's clear that Titanic closed that door - Titanic was the sum, the testament of that cinema and at the same time a sort of testament of the 20th century. This kind of metaphor of the post-industrial society, set up like a Tower of Babel, sinking with the poor workers stuck in the third hold as the rich ran away... The film had this kind of quasi-Marxist consciousness of the 20th century that ended in an industrial, total pessimism, which by the way was echoed by the recent (financial) crisis. And it's clear that twelve years later, Avatar is practically the opposite. I mean it's a film which rather opens towards the future. In that, I find that he's a director who, despite seeming like a director of big, genre movies, who started with films like Piranha 2 , who makes films like Aliens , etc. he's someone who can incarnate himself as a prophet... more than a guru, a prophet, even though he's from an almost modest, almost working-class background. He's a filmmaker of the factory. In fact, he's a filmmaker who has always identified with the working masses. I mean, James Cameron's favorite film is Norma Rae - Martine Ritt's film about American unions. I think he's a unique case. Perhaps you have to go back to the origins of cinema to find this kind of character, a little omnipotent and at the same time embodying the American dream, the kind of guy who comes from a working class suburb and manages to rise up and create shows that are... well, I say universal. The whole film seemed insane to me. We've been aware of the film for three years now. I mean, for three years we've known that a movie called Avatar was just around the corner, and it would spearhead a new technology, it would spearhead 3D. When you see the film, you realize that everything you wanted to see it for is dealt with in about ten minutes. Then begins the real project that we did not expect. Then begins the film that we did not see coming. The project is: how do you recreate a deeply touching universal myth with new technological means? How, within an extremely complex technical performance, do you restore what is primitive in us, that is to say: the taste for emotional, even melodramatic stories, the taste for love stories, crazy love stories... And that's where the film manages to be extremely surprising. I mean, for me, the greatest scene of the film is not a battle scene - and God knows that the battle scenes in the film are absolutely unheard of - but it's the moment when the two characters, in CGI, have a kiss, which could have come from the end of Cinema Paradiso . I mean it's a great cinematic kiss, and we look at it and say to ourselves: here we see CGI characters having a real kiss, having a real carnal urge on screen and we completely buy it. So much that, all things considered, this scene for me sums up the immensity of James Cameron's bet. That's why, in my opinion, he is an extraordinary director. He's also a director who takes on the right problems. The problem, that is to say the real problem, is: will we be able to carry on a certain perennial idea of cinema, as a medium that has always bewitched people by its capacity to be universal? Will we be able to carry this quality through the technological revolution that is underway - and that no one will be able to stop? People are wary of massive marketing. We're suspicious of uniform thinking and globalization. It's clear that Avatar - which is a 330 million dollar film - comes with such a marketing that few will be able to escape it. That's exactly what happened with Titanic . With Titanic , there were clubs of people who spontaneously formed to resist the sheep-like effect of Titanic 's spectators. There were people who said: "I will not go see Titanic because I don't want to be one of the sheep that will rush in the theaters, or a lemming that will rush off the cliff to chase the masses". I understand that feeling. Plenty of movies are announced to me as revolutions despite not being revolutions at all. As for Avatar , despite its massive - and in my opinion not always well-balanced - marketing, I feel that the film is much more impressive than you could imagine at first. For instance, when we see the film, we realize that what we had seen before was in fact just drafts. That the images were not finished, that all the work on the textures, the colors, the lighting, etc. the dynamic range and everything, were not finished. I mean when we see the finished film, we're amazed by how natural the film and its direction look. What fascinates me about the film is that it's never made like a special effects film. This totally sets it apart from films I thought it could be similar to. For example, Peter Jackson's King Kong . I thought about it a lot. When I saw the first images of Avatar , I thought of Peter Jackson's King Kong for several reasons: the creation of a complete environment, a complete biosphere, the effects done at Weta in both cases, that is to say Peter Jackson's special effects company. And in fact, when we watch Avatar we realize that we're dealing with an extremely different product from King Kong . With Avatar , you deal with something much more natural. With King Kong , you felt like going through big paintings, special effects vignettes, in fact. With Avatar , you feel like being in a real environment, in which the camera moves in an absolute way. And the frame does not contain the universe. It seems like the camera can do whatever it wants. In there, you feel the wind, you feel the grass on your feet, for instance. The film is made so naturally that you put in it sensations that you know. I mean we are not on another planet. We are really in a forest - a surprising one, obviously - but which has a reality of its own. So obviously, only someone with deep knowledge of special effects can manage to make a film built only on special effects and make us believe he really shot it in some sort of reality that he'd conceived himself. That's really one of the first strengths of Avatar . The movie is a James Cameron work through and through. It's like time had stopped for him. It's really funny: the guy managed to project his filmmaking into the future, but his filmmaking doesn't change. The technology he uses is in constant, total evolution, but he makes his films exactly the same way he's always made them. That is, you go through Avatar and your recognize the guy who made Aliens , who made Terminator 1 and 2 , the guy who made The Abyss , obviously. And it really is him. He has his own way of telling stories. By the way, I think the way his filmmaking stays the same, the way his directing style is absolutely unstoppable, comes from the fact that he writes his films himself. He has a way of structuring his stories, a way of structuring his films, that is unstoppable. Titanic is one of the best-told films ever made. That's one of the reasons for its gigantic success. I mean, quite frankly, for a three-and-a-half hour film, I never saw the time pass. Every time I say to myself: "I know the film by heart" , I sit down in front of the [he makes a sucking noise] ... it's over. I [whoosh] the film has come and gone. Why, how...? It's part of the chemistry of filmmaking and storytelling, etc. that Cameron is a great storyteller. Avatar is a film that is captivates instantly. We get swallowed by details that he manages to put into the film, which are purely human. In particular the fact that the hero is... in a wheelchair. It's his way of telling a story and instantly rooting the story in a reality, by telling us: the hero you are about to see no longer has the use of his legs. Moreover, he's probably lost the use of something else... and this guy is going to have a gigantic adventure in the dream. In the dream, he regains the use of his legs, but he also regains the use of the rest, because he falls in love with a young woman from this planet. In fact, the story of Avatar is the story of the fight, of the pitched battle between the hyper-masculine imperialism of the earthlings and the matriarchal - and therefore hyper-feminine - universe of the Na'vi, this primitive tribe that lives on Pandora. The hero is sandwiched between his love for a Na'vi princess and his relationship with the chief of the Marines, played sublimely by Stephen Lang, who is hyper-masculine, who is the Father figure in its most oppressive form. This guy is caught between two conceptions of life and he's going to make a choice. Cameron embodies his own choices in his films. I believe he's attracted both towards technology and the taste for romance at the same time. One complaint I have for the movie is that it's not long enough. We all know that the film was announced as a three-hour plus film, and in the end the film is two hours and forty minutes long. In fact, they decided to have the film match the length of the IMAX version - which is going to be the massively distributed version in the United States, since the IMAX version can't go beyond two hours and forty minutes. For a while, they announced that the IMAX film and the regular release would have different lengths. They realized that this was not a very good message to get across to the audience, who rightly started asking questions such as: "what should I go see?" Personally, I would have been fine with an extra hour, and I know that extra hour exists, so at least half an hour. And I think that, given the magnitude of the narrative, I would have liked some more scenes with Michelle Rodriguez in particular. There are some other characters who could have been a little more developed, but hey, there you go. I understand perfectly the dilemma that is: do we make several versions of this film, or do we release the film in theaters in a dynamic, two hours and forty minutes version, making people wait to see the complete film? Probably at a prestige re-release, or then, obviously, in video, on DVD, on Blu-ray... I was a little depressed after I saw the movie. I mean: you see this, then you say to yourself... well, you're crushed. It's like you got ran over by a herd of buffaloes. When you look at that, it's extremely impressive. Ever since The Abyss , I have an unwavering admiration for James Cameron, who really embodies for me the filmmaker as a pioneer, the filmmaker as an adventurer, the man who opens the last frontiers, well. But it's true that it's quite painful, when you're a director, when you try to be a good director... to watch a film like Avatar . Because it melts your face off. You get crushed. I remember when I saw Titanic . I didn't leave my house for a week. And then Avatar crushed me again - in a different way. But you can't make Titanic , disappear for 12 years, and come back with a normal movie. We'd all be horribly disappointed. Besides, I think he was the first one to be aware he had to set an impossible challenge for himself. For me, Avatar 's main strengths is to exist beyond its technical challenges. I've been asked a lot of questions about how to watch Avatar . "Should we see Avatar in 3D?", "Should we see it in IMAX 3D?", etc. It's a movie that can be seen in 2D. It's a movie that can be seen on a flat plane. It's not going to be a problem. There are films that you cannot imagine in 2D. For example, one of the films that fascinated me the most in 3D was Beowulf , by Robert Zemeckis. And it's a movie that you really had to see in IMAX 3D. It's one of the best screenings I've ever had in a theater in my life. But it's a film that has a hard time existing otherwise. In the case of Avatar , I think you can see this film very well in 2D. It's a movie that works completely on its own. The movie is not going to exist just because you're getting Na'vi arrows fired at your head. Absolutely. The film exists because it has direct emotional power over the spectator. And because of that, it is an extremely classical film. And it's a film that literally sets a milestone, a cornerstone, in the history of cinema. Anyone can go and see this film. Now that the film is forcing some exhibitors to go digital, I think it's a really good thing. As a filmmaker, I'm delighted to hear that many people today in France have changed the equipment in their theater, have gone digital, just to show Avatar . The better the theater is equipped to exploit new technologies, the better the films will be projected on the big screen, the less people will want to download films. The higher the screening quality, the more people will want to keep going to the movies. The great thing about Avatar is that you can go see it in IMAX 3D and you'll see something extraordinary, but you can also, in my opinion, recognize what a masterpiece it is by just going to see it in 2D. I mean it's a film that is transverse, it's a film that moves through genres, through technologies, through formats, without any issue, because it plays on the only element that is vital in the end, which is emotion. The only vital element. And for this, it is a great success. (December 2009) Read more Archived post. New comments cannot be posted and votes cannot be cast. New to Reddit? Create your account and connect with a world of communities. Continue with Email Continue With Phone Number By continuing, you agree to our User Agreement and acknowledge that you understand the Privacy Policy . Public Anyone can view, post, and comment to this community Top Posts Reddit reReddit: Top posts of January 4, 2023 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of January 2023 Reddit reReddit: Top posts of 2023 Reddit Rules Privacy Policy User Agreement Reddit, Inc. © 2025. All rights reserved. Expand Navigation Collapse Navigation &nbsp; &nbsp; TOPICS Internet Culture (Viral) Amazing Animals & Pets Cringe & Facepalm Funny Interesting Memes Oddly Satisfying Reddit Meta Wholesome & Heartwarming Games Action Games Adventure Games Esports Gaming Consoles & Gear Gaming News & Discussion Mobile Games Other Games Role-Playing Games Simulation Games Sports & Racing Games Strategy Games Tabletop Games Q&As Q&As Stories & Confessions Technology 3D Printing Artificial Intelligence & Machine Learning Computers & Hardware Consumer Electronics DIY Electronics Programming Software & Apps Streaming Services Tech News & Discussion Virtual & Augmented Reality Pop Culture Celebrities Creators & Influencers Generations & Nostalgia Podcasts Streamers Tarot & Astrology Movies & TV Action Movies & Series Animated Movies & Series Comedy Movies & Series Crime, Mystery, & Thriller Movies & Series Documentary Movies & Series Drama Movies & Series Fantasy Movies & Series Horror Movies & Series Movie News & Discussion Reality TV Romance Movies & Series Sci-Fi Movies & Series Superhero Movies & Series TV News & Discussion RESOURCES About Reddit Advertise Reddit Pro BETA Help Blog Careers Press Communities Best of Reddit Topics