Fellow - Wikipedia Jump to content Main menu Main menu move to sidebar hide Navigation Main page Contents Current events Random article About Wikipedia Contact us Contribute Help Learn to edit Community portal Recent changes Upload file Special pages Search Search Appearance Donate Create account Log in Personal tools Donate Create account Log in Pages for logged out editors learn more Contributions Talk Contents move to sidebar hide (Top) 1 Education and academia Toggle Education and academia subsection 1.1 Teaching fellowships 1.2 Medical fellowships 1.3 Research fellowships 1.3.1 As an academic position 1.3.2 As a financial grant 1.4 Fellowships as a training program 1.5 Fellowships as a special membership grade 1.6 In ancient universities 1.7 In the U.S. 2 Industry and corporate fellows Toggle Industry and corporate fellows subsection 2.1 Nonprofit and government fellowships 3 See also 4 References Toggle the table of contents Fellow 22 languages العربية Azərbaycanca বাংলা Català Dansk Deutsch Español فارسی Français ગુજરાતી 한국어 हिन्दी Bahasa Indonesia Italiano 日本語 Norsk bokmål Português Русский Simple English Svenska Українська 中文 Edit links Article Talk English Read Edit View history Tools Tools move to sidebar hide Actions Read Edit View history General What links here Related changes Upload file Permanent link Page information Cite this page Get shortened URL Download QR code Print/export Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikidata item Appearance move to sidebar hide From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Title and form of address for learned or skilled individual "Fellowship" redirects here. For other uses, see Fellowship (disambiguation) and Fellow (disambiguation) . This article needs additional citations for verification . Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources . Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. Find sources: "Fellow" – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR ( June 2019 ) ( Learn how and when to remove this message ) A fellow is a title and form of address for distinguished, learned, or skilled individuals in academia, medicine, research, and industry. The exact meaning of the term differs in each field. In learned or professional societies, the term refers to a privileged member who is specially elected in recognition of their work and achievements. [ 1 ] [ 2 ] Within institutions of higher education , a fellow is a member of a highly ranked group of teachers at a particular college or university or a member of the governing body in some universities. It can also be a specially selected postgraduate student who has been appointed to a post (called a fellowship ) granting a stipend , research facilities and other privileges for a fixed period (usually one year or more) in order to undertake some advanced study or research, often in return for teaching services. [ 1 ] [ 2 ] In the context of medical education in North America, a fellow is a physician who is undergoing a supervised, sub-specialty medical training (fellowship) after having completed a specialty training program (residency). Lastly, In large, R&D-intensive institutions, the term denotes a small number of senior scientists and engineers. Education and academia [ edit ] In education and academia there are several kinds of fellowships, awarded for different reasons. Teaching fellowships [ edit ] Main article: Teaching fellow The title of (senior) teaching fellow is used to denote an academic teaching position at a university or similar institution and is roughly equivalent to the title of (senior) lecturer . The title (senior) fellow can also be bestowed to an academic member of staff upon retirement who continues to be affiliated to a university in the United Kingdom. The term teaching fellow or teaching assistant is used, in the United States and United Kingdom, in secondary school, high school and middle school setting for students or adults that assist a teacher with one or more classes. [ 3 ] Medical fellowships [ edit ] Main article: Fellowship (medicine) In US medical institutions, a fellow refers to someone who has completed residency training (e.g. in family medicine, internal medicine, pediatrics, general surgery, etc.) and is currently in a 1- to 3-year subspecialty training program (e.g. cardiology, sleep medicine, pediatric nephrology, transplant surgery, etc.). Research fellowships [ edit ] As an academic position [ edit ] Main article: Research fellow The title of research fellow may be used to denote an academic position at a university or a similar institution; it is roughly equivalent to the title of lecturer in the Commonwealth teaching career pathway. [ citation needed ] As a financial grant [ edit ] Research fellow may also refer to the recipient of academic financial grant or scholarship . For example, in Germany, institutions such as the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation offer research fellowship for postdoctoral research and refer to the holder as research fellows, while the award holder may formally hold a specific academic title at their home institution (e.g., Privatdozent ). [ 4 ] These are often shortened to the name of the programme or organization, e.g. Dorothy Hodgkin Fellow rather than Dorothy Hodgkin Research Fellow, except where this might cause confusion with another fellowship, (e.g. Royal Society University Research Fellowship . [ 5 ] [ 6 ] [ 7 ] [ 8 ] ) In the context of graduate school in the United States and Canada , a fellow is a recipient of a postgraduate fellowship. Examples include the NSF Graduate Research Fellowship , the DoD National Defense Science and Engineering Graduate Fellowship , the DOE Computational Science Graduate Fellowship , the Guggenheim Fellowship , the Rosenthal Fellowship , the Frank Knox Memorial Fellowship , the Woodrow Wilson Teaching Fellowship and the Presidential Management Fellowship . It is granted to prospective or current students, on the basis of their academic or research achievements. In the UK, research fellowships are awarded to support postdoctoral researchers such as those funded by the Wellcome Trust [ 9 ] and the Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council (BBSRC) . [ 10 ] At ETH Zurich , postdoctoral fellowships support incoming researchers. [ 11 ] The MacArthur Fellows Program (aka "genius grant") as prestigious research fellowship awarded in the United States. Fellowships as a training program [ edit ] Fellowships may involve a short placement for capacity building, [ 12 ] [ 13 ] e.g., to get more experience in government, such as the American Association for the Advancement of Science 's fellowships [ 14 ] and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences Fellowship programs . Some institutions offer fellowships as a professional training program as well as a financial grant, such as the Balsillie School of International Affairs , where tuition and other fees are paid by the fellowship. Fellowships as a special membership grade [ edit ] Fellows are often the highest grade of membership of many professional associations or learned societies , for example, the Chartered Institute of Arbitrators , the Chartered Governance Institute or Royal College of Surgeons . Lower grades are referred to as members (who typically share voting rights with the fellows), or associates (who may or may not, depending on whether "associate" status is a form of full membership).  Additional grades of membership exist in, for example, the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) and the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM). Fellowships of this type can be awarded as a title of honor in their own right, e.g. the Fellow of the Royal Society (FRS) or Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering (FREng). Exclusive learned societies such as the Royal Society have Fellow as the only grade of membership. Appointment as an honorary fellow in a learned or professional society can be either to honour exceptional achievement or service within the professional domain of the awarding body or to honour contributions related to the domain from someone who is professionally outside it. Membership of the awarding body may or may not be a requirement. How a fellowship is awarded varies for each society, but may typically involve some or all of these: A qualifying period in a lower grade Passing a series of examinations Nomination by two existing fellows who know the applicant professionally Evidence of continued formal training post-qualification Evidence of substantial achievement in the subject area Submission of a thesis or portfolio of works which will be examined Election by a vote of the fellowship In ancient universities [ edit ] At the ancient universities of Oxford , Cambridge , and Trinity College, Dublin , members of the teaching staff typically have two affiliations: one as a reader, lecturer, or other academic rank within a department of the university, as at other universities, and a second affiliation as a fellow of one of the colleges of the university. The fellows, sometimes referred to as university dons , form the governing body of the college.  They may elect a council to handle day-to-day management. All fellows are entitled to certain privileges within their colleges, which may include dining at High Table (free of charge) and possibly the right to a room in college (free of charge). [ citation needed ] At Cambridge, retired academics may remain fellows. [ citation needed ] At Oxford, however, a governing body fellow would normally be elected a fellow emeritus and would leave the governing body upon his or her retirement. [ citation needed ] Distinguished old members of the college, or its benefactors and friends, might also be elected 'Honorary Fellow', normally for life; but beyond limited dining rights this is merely an honour. Most Oxford colleges have 'Fellows by Special Election' or 'Supernumerary Fellows', who may be members of the teaching staff, but not necessarily members of the governing body. Some senior administrators of a college such as bursars are made fellows, and thereby members of the governing body, because of their importance to the running of a college. [ citation needed ] In the U.S. [ edit ] At some universities in the United States, "fellows" are members of the board of trustees who hold administrative positions as non-executive trustee rather than academics. [ citation needed ] Industry and corporate fellows [ edit ] See also: Category:Corporate fellows , IBM Fellow , and ICL Fellows In industries intensive in science , engineering medicine , and research & development ,  companies may appoint a very small number of top senior researchers as corporate, technical or industry fellows, either in Science or in Engineering . These are internationally recognized leaders who are among the best in the world in their respective fields. [ 15 ] [ 16 ] [ 17 ] Corporate, Technical or Industry Fellow in either Science or Engineering is the most senior rank or title one can achieve in a scientific or engineering career , though fellows often also hold business titles such as Vice President [ 18 ] [ 19 ] or Chief Technology Officer . [ 20 ] [ 21 ] Notable examples of fellows in scientific, medical and other research-intensive organizations include: Advanced Micro Devices (AMD) Fellows [ 22 ] Apple Fellows [ 23 ] Battelle Fellows [ 24 ] [ 25 ] Bell Labs Fellows [ 26 ] Boeing Fellows Deloitte Fellows [ 27 ] DXC Technology Fellows [ 28 ] DuPont Fellows [ 29 ] Google fellows [ 30 ] Henry Ford Technical Fellows HP Fellows [ 31 ] Intel Fellows [ 32 ] Microsoft Fellows NASA Fellows [ 33 ] Oak Ridge National Laboratory (ORNL) Fellows [ 34 ] RTI International fellows [ 35 ] Toray Fellows [ 36 ] Nonprofit and government fellowships [ edit ] The title fellow can be used for participants in a professional development program run by a nonprofit or governmental organization.  This type of fellowship is a short term work opportunity (1–2 years) [ 37 ] for professionals who already possess some level of academic or professional expertise that will serve the nonprofit mission.  Fellows are given a stipend as well as professional experience and leadership training. See also [ edit ] Look up fellow in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. Honorary title (academic) List of science awards References [ edit ] ^ a b "Definition of fellow" . Lexico.com . Oxford University Press . Archived from the original on August 14, 2020 . Retrieved 16 March 2021 . ^ a b "Definition of 'fellow' " . HarperCollins Publishers . Retrieved 16 March 2021 . ^ "North Carolina Teaching Fellows Program" . teachingfellows.org . Teaching Fellows. Archived from the original on 2013-12-09 . Retrieved 2013-12-04 . ^ Ten Years' Growth - What Fruit Has the Georg Forster Programme Borne? Archived 2019-02-17 at the Wayback Machine , Retrieved on 18 Feb 2009 ^ "Research Fellows Directory" . London: Royal Society . Archived from the original on 3 May 2016 . Retrieved 19 June 2016 . ^ "Research Fellows" . Imperial College London . Archived from the original on 12 June 2016 . Retrieved 19 June 2016 . Contains examples (as of 19 June 2016) of staff titled "Research Fellow", "Junior Research Fellow", "Royal Society – EPSRC Dorothy Hodgkin Research Fellow" and "Royal College of Surgeons Research Fellow". ^ "University Research Fellowship: for outstanding scientists in the UK" . Royal Society. Archived from the original on 2016-02-03. ^ Cook, Alan (2000). "URFs become FRS: Frances Ashcroft, Athene Donald and John Pethica". Notes and Records of the Royal Society . 54 (3): 409– 411. doi : 10.1098/rsnr.2000.0181 . S2CID 58095147 . ^ Anon (2016). "Sir Henry Wellcome Postdoctoral Fellowships" . wellcome.ac.uk . London: Wellcome Trust . ^ Anon (2016). "David Phillips Fellowships" . bbsrc.ac.uk . Swindon: Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council . ^ Anon (2016). "ETH Zurich Postdoctoral Fellowships (ETH Fellows)" . ethz.ch . ^ "Graduate Fellowships and Traineeship Programs", in: Assessment of NIH Minority Research and Training Programs: Phase 3. [1] ^ Culp, Ron (19 February 2013). "Differentiating Between Internships and Fellowships" . ^ "Fellowships" . American Association for the Advancement of Science . ^ "Corporate Fellows | ORNL" . www.ornl.gov . Retrieved 2019-06-17 . ^ LaRC, Denise Adams. "NASA - Langley Employees Among First NASA Technical Fellows" . www.nasa.gov . Archived from the original on 2023-02-06 . Retrieved 2019-06-17 . ^ "Nokia Bell Labs: Awards & Recognition" . www.bell-labs.com . Retrieved 2019-06-17 . ^ "All of Chris Swan's Content on InfoQ" . www.infoq.com . Retrieved 2019-06-17 . ^ "Science at PNNL - Johannes Lercher" . www.pnnl.gov . Retrieved 2019-06-17 . ^ "Sue Clark | PNNL" . www.pnnl.gov . Retrieved 2019-06-17 . ^ Foley, Mary Jo. "Microsoft Big Brains: Dave Campbell" . ZDNet . Retrieved 2019-06-17 . ^ "AMD Promotes Two Technical Leaders to Corporate Fellow" . Archived from the original on 2018-06-12 . Retrieved 2018-06-12 . ^ "Phil Schiller Advances to Apple Fellow" . www.apple.com . ^ "Senior Research Fellows | PNNL" . www.pnnl.gov . ^ "Dr. Amy Heintz Named First Battelle Technical Fellow" . Battelle . ^ "Nokia Bell Labs: 2017 Bell Labs Fellows Announced" . www.bell-labs.com . 7 December 2017. ^ "Introducing Deloitte's Technology Fellows – Life at Deloitte Blog | Deloitte US" . Deloitte United States . Retrieved 2025-02-16 . ^ "DXC Fellows, Distinguished Architects, Distinguished Engineers and Distinguished Technologists" . DXC Technology . ^ "Awards & Recognition | DuPont" . www.dupont.com . ^ Somers, James (3 December 2018). "The Friendship That Made Google Huge" . The New Yorker . ^ "HP Fellows & Sr Fellows" . HP Corporate Information . ^ "Intel Senior Fellows: An Exclusive Club" . Intel Newsroom . ^ LaRC, Denise Adams. "NASA - Langley Employees Among First NASA Technical Fellows" . www.nasa.gov . Archived from the original on 2023-02-06 . Retrieved 2018-06-07 . ^ "Corporate Fellows | ORNL" . www.ornl.gov . ^ "RTI Fellow Program" . RTI . February 19, 2016. ^ "TORAY" . www.toray.com . Archived from the original on 2018-06-20 . Retrieved 2020-07-21 . ^ UVM Career Services. "Find Non-Profit Fellowships" . University of Vermont . Retrieved 19 July 2011 . v t e Phaleristics Auxiliary science of history and numismatics about orders , decorations , and medals Distinctions ( Lists ) By conferee Founts of honour * States and their national/public/official authorities Dynasties heads of currently or formerly sovereign royal families Private Ecclesiastical Organisations Commercial ( Self-styled order ) By type Orders Order of chivalry Military order Colonial order Order of merit Royal family order Titles ( Styles , Post-nominal ) By function Grand master Chancellor Treasurer Assessor Bailiff Prior Chaplain Master of ceremonies Grand Cross / Grand Cordon Commander Officer Hospitaller Knight / Dame Postulant Squire Page Jurisdictions Charter Bailiwick Chapter Commandery Obedience Grand Lodge Lodge Others, by field Military ( List ) List of highest Campaign medal Law enforcement Civilian ( List ) Society Peace Intellectual freedom Human rights Law Humanitarianism Politics Volunteer Culture Architecture Art Film History Literature Music Philosophy Poetry Theatre Science Religion-related Ecclesiastical Sports Scouting Beauty By insignia ( Named after people ) For wearing (decorations) Formal Chelengk Collar Livery collar Grand Cross / Grand Cordon with sash Medal Necklet Medal bar Medal ribbon Robe of honour Tiraz Other Rosette Award pin Lapel pin Collar pin Tie pin Badge Heraldic Pilgrim Championship belt Embroidered patch Epaulette Ribbon Ring Championship ring Button Campaign Service Shoulder mark Tie clip Prizes Booby prize Wooden spoon Deal toy Plaquette Prize book Prize money Prize of war War trophy Human trophy Rosette Trophy Acrylic Participation Prizes known as the Nobel of a field Ceremonies and events Accolade Vigil Feoffment Passage fee Festival Vow Collar day Related organisations Fraternity Confraternity Fraternal order Fraternities and sororities Secret society Guild Syndicate Learned society Fellowship Honor society Hereditary society Club Gentlemen's club International Commission for Orders of Chivalry Magical organization Religious order Related concepts Chivalry Numismatics Heraldry Vexillology Service flag Battle honour Campaign streamer Nobility Order of precedence Taonga Honorary degree Devotional medal Awareness ribbon Code of conduct Code of honor High society * = Direct or indirect reference to fount of honour is the accepted criterion for official distinctions Category:Orders, decorations, and medals Wikipedia:WikiProject Orders, decorations, and medals Wikipedia:WikiProject Awards v t e Personal names and anthroponymy Personal name Birth name Given name Surname Patrilineal / Matrilineal Affixes Nobiliary particle By sequence First name Middle name Last name By trait Diminutive Double-barrelled Epithet Animal Common Plant Eponymic Matronymic Metonymic Mononymic Occupational Patronymic Surname Sobriquet Teknonymic Toponymic Surname Patrial Unisex Virtue By life situation Aptronym Birth name Code name Maiden and married names Necronym Posthumous name Temple name Placeholder name Notname Regnal name Slave name Pseudonyms ( list ) Art name Bugō Nicknames list Hypocorism Monarchs Nom de guerre Pen name Heteronym Ring name Shikona Stage name List Mononyms Username By culture Surnames by country East Asian Amami Chinese Courtesy Art Generation Titles Japanese Korean Manchu Okinawan Indigenous Taiwanese Vietnamese Northern Asia and Central Asia Kalmyk Mongolian Sakha Tibetan Muslim world and Western Asia Afghan Arabic Azerbaijani Bengali Berber Coptic Mandaean Pakistani Pashtun Persian Sindhi Somali Tatar Turkish Oceania Australian Aboriginal Fijian Hawaiian Māori Sub-Saharan Africa Ashanti Democratic Republic of the Congo Eritrean and Ethiopian Ewe Ghanaian Igbo Yoruba Zimbabwean Europe , North America and Australasia Albanian Armenian Ashkenazi Jewish Basque Estonian Finnish Georgian Greek Ancient Greek Cypriot Hungarian Baltic Latvian Lithuanian Celtic Cornish Irish Manx Scottish Welsh Germanic Dutch English American African-American Canadian Hongkongese German Gothic Icelandic Scandinavian Swedish Romance Catalan French Italian Occitan Portuguese Roman Praenomen Nomen Cognomen Agnomen Romanian Spanish Hispanic America Slavic Bulgarian Croatian Czech East Slavic Belarusian Russian Ukrainian Kashubian Macedonian Polish Serbian Slovak Suffixes Indosphere ( South Asia and Southeast Asia ) Balinese Bengali Burmese Filipino Indonesian Chinese Javanese Cambodian Malaysian Mizo (Lushai) Indian Lao Pakistani Sindhi Sinhalese Ancient Tamil country Thai By religion Christian name Biblical name Papal name Saint's name Buddhist surname Dharma name Jewish name Hebrew Mandaean name Theophoric name Manners of address List of authority / honour Styles Honorific Diplomatic Imperial, royal, and noble Judiciary Religious Ecclesiastical Pre-nominal letters Suffix Emeritus Post-nominal letters Academic Orders , decorations , and medals Titles Academic Imperial, royal and noble Chivalric Courtesy False Hereditary Subsidiary Substantive Military Professional Academic Educational Honorary Business Diplomatic Judicial Religious Ecclesiastical Papal Related traditions Baptism Name day Calendar of saints Related Acronym Anonymity Anthropomorphism Personification National Call sign Deadnaming Endonym and exonym Family Galton–Watson process Legal name Name change List Given Surname Namesake Naming taboo Nomenclature Nomen nescio Misnomer Onomastics -onym Personal identity Identifier Proper name Signature Monogram Royal cypher Khelrtva Signum manus Tughra Surnames by country Category:Lists of names Retrieved from " https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Fellow&oldid=1285651839 " Categories : Academic administration Education and training occupations Corporate titles Positions of authority Leadership Hidden categories: Webarchive template wayback links Articles with short description Short description is different from Wikidata Articles needing additional references from June 2019 All articles needing additional references All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from December 2016 Articles with unsourced statements from April 2021 Articles with unsourced statements from March 2014 Broad-concept articles This page was last edited on 14 April 2025, at 23:15 (UTC) . Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 License ; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc. , a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Code of Conduct Developers Statistics Cookie statement Mobile view Search Search Toggle the table of contents Fellow 22 languages Add topic