OpenAI will retire GPT-4 from ChatGPT on April 30, 2025 | Windows Central Skip to main content Open menu Close menu Windows Central Search Search Windows Central Sign in View Profile Sign out RSS Windows 11 Copilot & AI Xbox & Gaming PC & Surface How To Reviews ⭐ Deals ⭐ Forums More Podcasts Buying Guides About Windows Central Trending Microsoft @ 50 Tariffs Best AI laptop in 2025 Windows 11 Copilot+ PCs Software Apps Sam Altman says GPT-4 "kind of sucks" as OpenAI discontinues its model for the "magical" GPT-4o in ChatGPT News By Kevin Okemwa published 14 April 2025 OpenAI is retiring GPT-4 in favor of GPT-4o in ChatGPT, starting April 30, 2025. Comments ( 0 ) ( ) When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works . OpenAI CEO Sam Altman. (Image credit: Getty Images | Anadolu) Over the past few years, generative AI has scaled great heights and become more advanced with incredible capabilities like OpenAI's new ChatGPT-4o image generator that went viral on social media with Studio Ghibli-inspired memes . OpenAI CEO Sam Altman has expressed his disappointment with the company's GPT-4, admitting that it " kind of sucks " and that it's mildly embarrassing at best . "GPT-4 is the dumbest model any of you will ever have to use again by a lot," added Altman. "It's important to ship early and often and we believe in iterative deployment." As it turns out, OpenAI is getting ready to pull the plug on GPT-4. According to a changelog posted by the company late last week, GPT-4 will be effectively replaced by GPT-4o on April 30, 2025, as the default model in ChatGPT. However, GPT-4 will remain available via OpenAI's API. You may like Sam Altman on GPT-4.5: Expensive, yet the closest thing to a thoughtful conversational partner we've seen Sam Altman says ChatGPT's images "are wayyy more popular than we expected" — OpenAI had to place free users on a waitlist for a while, "our GPUs are melting" According to OpenAI : “In head‑to‑head evaluations, [GPT-4o] consistently surpasses GPT‑4 in writing, coding, STEM, and more. Recent upgrades have further improved GPT‑4o’s instruction following, problem solving, and conversational flow, making it a natural successor to GPT‑4.” Compared to GPT-4o, OpenAI CEO Sam Altman indicated that GPT-4 cost up to $100 million to train (via TechCrunch ). Last year, the company unveiled GPT-4o with reasoning capabilities across text, audio, and voice, touting it as a faster iteration of its its predecessor, GPT-4. Interestingly, OpenAI's transition from GPT-4 to GPT-4o has seemingly drawn more traction to ChatGPT, adding one million new users in a little under an hour after launching its flashy image generator. Get the Windows Central Newsletter All the latest news, reviews, and guides for Windows and Xbox diehards. Contact me with news and offers from other Future brands Receive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsors By submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over. Interestingly, when GPT-4o launched in May 2024, ChatGPT experienced the biggest spike in revenue and downloads and mobile. Elsewhere, a new report recently suggested that ChatGPT is the most popular app among 10,500+ AI tools in February 2025 . Compared to Microsoft Copilot, ChatGPT saw over 52x more visits, translating to 173.3 million daily visits. For context, ChatGPT's daily visits surpass Copilot's monthly visits. TOPICS Artificial Intelligence CATEGORIES Software Apps Kevin Okemwa Social Links Navigation Contributor Kevin Okemwa is a seasoned tech journalist based in Nairobi, Kenya with lots of experience covering the latest trends and developments in the industry at Windows Central. With a passion for innovation and a keen eye for detail, he has written for leading publications such as OnMSFT, MakeUseOf, and Windows Report, providing insightful analysis and breaking news on everything revolving around the Microsoft ecosystem. While AFK and not busy following the ever-emerging trends in tech, you can find him exploring the world or listening to music. You must confirm your public display name before commenting Please logout and then login again, you will then be prompted to enter your display name. Logout Read more Sam Altman on GPT-4.5: Expensive, yet the closest thing to a thoughtful conversational partner we've seen Sam Altman says ChatGPT's images "are wayyy more popular than we expected" — OpenAI had to place free users on a waitlist for a while, "our GPUs are melting" Sam Altman says OpenAI is no longer "compute-constrained" — after Microsoft lost its exclusive cloud provider status I love ChatGPT-4o's unhinged image-generation capabilities — but I'm afraid imminent censorship by OpenAI lurks on the horizon Despite Microsoft's multi-billion-dollar OpenAI investment, these viral ChatGPT 4o Ghibli memes are another example of just how far behind Copilot is Is OpenAI's new ChatGPT-4o image generator the end for graphic designers? — Weekend discussion 💬 Latest in Software Apps Windows Recall finally launches, Oblivion Remastered surprise drops, and Drug Dealer Simulator devs speak out Windows 11 will soon lose the Maps app forever, affecting dozens of users — RIP a Windows Phone relic My favorite Windows File Explorer replacement just got better Microsoft Edge may be getting a redesigned New Tab Page powered by Copilot Windows 3.1 is now available for the Game Boy Color... kind of Apple Intelligence page no longer reads "Available Now" — I wonder if Apple has lost faith in its AI strategy after so many delays? Latest in News The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion causes another Bethesda game to shoot up the charts New Xbox games launching this week, from April 28 through May 4 — Towerborne arrives in Xbox Game Pass Meta, Facebook, and Instagram AI is coming for EU data — Here's what you need to know (and how to opt out) 'Clair Obscur: Expedition 33' hits 1 million copies sold in just three days (not including Xbox Game Pass) proving demand for photorealistic JRPG-styled games 'Clair Obscur: Expedition 33' utterly destroys Square Enix's gaslighting over Final Fantasy turn-based combat The Elder Scrolls 4: Oblivion Remastered has already reached 4 million players in its first week LATEST ARTICLES 1 The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion causes another Bethesda game to shoot up the charts 2 New Xbox games launching this week, from April 28 through May 4 — Towerborne arrives in Xbox Game Pass 3 Meta, Facebook, and Instagram AI is coming for EU data — Here's what you need to know (and how to opt out) 4 I've been testing one of the best value 4K OLED gaming monitors, and it's awesome — but watch out for tariffs 5 'Clair Obscur: Expedition 33' hits 1 million copies sold in just three days (not including Xbox Game Pass) proving demand for photorealistic JRPG-styled games Windows Central is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site . Terms and conditions Contact Future's experts Privacy policy Cookies policy Accessibility statement Careers Licensing About us Newsletter Advertise with us Android Central iMore © Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street, New York, NY 10036. Close Please login or signup to comment Please wait... Login Sign Up