Splatoon 2 | Splatoon Wiki | Fandom Start a Wiki Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In Splatoon Wiki Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts Splatoon Splatoon .52 Gal Splatfest .96 Gal .52 Gal Deco Moray Towers Ninja Squid Splatoon Splatfest information and results Splatfest results Characters Sheldon Annie Moe Jelonzo Judd Spyke Protagonist Gear Black Arrowbands B-ball Headband Backwards Cap Bike Helmet Bamboo Hat Armor Helmet Replica 18K Aviators Weapons Splat Roller Splat Charger Splat Bomb Splattershot Suction Bomb Slosher Heavy Splatling Locations Octo Valley Walleye Warehouse Saltspray Rig Urchin Underpass Port Mackerel Moray Towers Museum D'Alfonsino Modes Turf War Ranked Battle Regular Battle Splatfest Squad Battle Hero Mode Turf War Splatoon 2 Splatoon 2 Splat Roller Splat Charger Splat Bomb Splattershot Regular Battle Moray Towers Splatoon 2 Splatfest results Characters Judd Spyke Li'l Judd Protagonist Flow Jelfonzo Bisk Gear Mint Tee Basic Tee Octo Tee 18K Aviators Milky Enperrials Old-Timey Clothes Eye of Justice Weapons Splat Roller Splat Charger Splat Bomb Splattershot Suction Bomb Slosher Splat Brella Locations Moray Towers The Reef Musselforge Fitness Starfish Mainstage Sturgeon Shipyard Octo Canyon Shella Fresh Modes Turf War Ranked Battle Regular Battle Salmon Run Hero Mode Salmon Run Turf War Splatoon 3 Splatoon 3 Smallfry Splattack! Octoling (Playable) Splatoon 3 Splatsville Splatlands Tri-Stringer Characters Octoling (Enemy) Octotrooper Protagonist Pearl Houzuki Octoling (Playable) Little Buddy Animals Weapons Splattershot Blaster Undercover Brella Tri-Stringer Crab Tank Trizooka Big Bubbler Locations Museum D'Alfonsino Splatsville Splatlands Alterna Ammo Knights (Splatoon 3) Man-o'-Wardrobe Hotlantis Modes Turf War Tower Control Rainmaker Salmon Run Next Wave Tricolor Turf War Big Run Anarchy Battle Gear Designer Headphones Camo Zip Hoodie B-ball Jersey (Home) Black Inky Rider Camo Layered LS Blowfish Bell Hat 18K Aviators Community Help and rules Recent blog posts Forum Sandbox Report thread Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In Explore Fan Central Current Advertisement Skip to content Splatoon Wiki 1,883 pages Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts Splatoon Splatoon .52 Gal Splatfest .96 Gal .52 Gal Deco Moray Towers Ninja Squid Splatoon Splatfest information and results Splatfest results Characters Sheldon Annie Moe Jelonzo Judd Spyke Protagonist Gear Black Arrowbands B-ball Headband Backwards Cap Bike Helmet Bamboo Hat Armor Helmet Replica 18K Aviators Weapons Splat Roller Splat Charger Splat Bomb Splattershot Suction Bomb Slosher Heavy Splatling Locations Octo Valley Walleye Warehouse Saltspray Rig Urchin Underpass Port Mackerel Moray Towers Museum D'Alfonsino Modes Turf War Ranked Battle Regular Battle Splatfest Squad Battle Hero Mode Turf War Splatoon 2 Splatoon 2 Splat Roller Splat Charger Splat Bomb Splattershot Regular Battle Moray Towers Splatoon 2 Splatfest results Characters Judd Spyke Li'l Judd Protagonist Flow Jelfonzo Bisk Gear Mint Tee Basic Tee Octo Tee 18K Aviators Milky Enperrials Old-Timey Clothes Eye of Justice Weapons Splat Roller Splat Charger Splat Bomb Splattershot Suction Bomb Slosher Splat Brella Locations Moray Towers The Reef Musselforge Fitness Starfish Mainstage Sturgeon Shipyard Octo Canyon Shella Fresh Modes Turf War Ranked Battle Regular Battle Salmon Run Hero Mode Salmon Run Turf War Splatoon 3 Splatoon 3 Smallfry Splattack! Octoling (Playable) Splatoon 3 Splatsville Splatlands Tri-Stringer Characters Octoling (Enemy) Octotrooper Protagonist Pearl Houzuki Octoling (Playable) Little Buddy Animals Weapons Splattershot Blaster Undercover Brella Tri-Stringer Crab Tank Trizooka Big Bubbler Locations Museum D'Alfonsino Splatsville Splatlands Alterna Ammo Knights (Splatoon 3) Man-o'-Wardrobe Hotlantis Modes Turf War Tower Control Rainmaker Salmon Run Next Wave Tricolor Turf War Big Run Anarchy Battle Gear Designer Headphones Camo Zip Hoodie B-ball Jersey (Home) Black Inky Rider Camo Layered LS Blowfish Bell Hat 18K Aviators Community Help and rules Recent blog posts Forum Sandbox Report thread in: Splatoon Series , Games , Splatoon 2 Splatoon 2 Sign in to edit History Purge Talk (0) Splatoon 2 - Accolades Trailer - Nintendo Switch Platforms Nintendo Switch Released July 21, 2017 Cost US $59.99 CA $79.99 AU $79.99 FRA 59.99€ Preceded Splatoon Followed Splatoon 3 Splatoon 2 ( スプラトゥーン 2 , Supuratūn 2 ? ) is a third-person shooter developed and published by Nintendo. It is the sequel to 2015's Splatoon for Wii U . It was released on July 21, 2017 for Nintendo Switch . Contents 1 History 2 Splatfest World Premiere 3 Global Testfire 4 Plot 4.1 Story mode 4.2 Octo Expansion 5 Gameplay 5.1 Modes 5.1.1 Turf War 5.1.2 Ranked Battle 5.1.3 Hero Mode 5.1.4 Octo Expansion 5.1.5 Salmon Run 6 Locations 6.1 Maps 7 Weapons 7.1 Main Weapons 7.1.1 Shooters 7.1.2 Blasters 7.1.3 Rollers 7.1.4 Brushes 7.1.5 Chargers 7.1.6 Dualies 7.1.7 Brellas 7.1.8 Sloshers 7.1.9 Splatlings 7.2 Sub Weapons 7.3 Special Weapons 8 amiibo support 9 Customization 10 Music 10.1 Off the Hook 10.2 Squid Sisters 10.3 DJ Real Sole 10.4 Mizuta Ahato 10.5 Wet Floor 10.6 N/A 11 Gallery 12 External links History [ ] Splatoon 2 was created as a direct sequel to Splatoon to meet the existing fans' expectations. It was important for the development team that it appeals to not only the first game's player base, but to the demographic that was interested in Splatoon despite not buying it. This makes it a proper sequel in the team's eyes. The intended appeal was worked toward by giving the game a new take on existing aspects and resetting old strategies, creating an entirely new meta that would still change based on updates. While performance was a factor in changes to weapons and gear , the developers focused more on how they would feel to use. The dev team also set the game world two years later than in Splatoon to make returning players feel as if the series were growing with them. Another point of focus was on utilizing the features of the Nintendo Switch, such as creating tactile experiences using HD Rumble, making sure Splatoon 2 always runs at 60 FPS and continued amiibo compatibility for the series. The game was teased on October 20, 2016, in the First Look at Nintendo Switch trailer. It was properly announced in the Nintendo Switch livestream on January 13, 2017, confirming that it is a sequel and not an updated Splatoon port in the vein of Mario Kart 8 Deluxe . Splatoon 2 is, as its predecessor, to receive frequent updates and in-game events such as regional Splatfests . Balancing is also expected for updates. Splatfest World Premiere [ ] The Splatoon 2's Splatfest World Premiere was a free premiere to the game Splatoon 2. You can still download it now on the eShop. You are no longer allowed to do anything except create an Inkling , do the tutorial level, and explore Inkopolis Square . On July 15 the first Splatoon 2 Splatfest was held. You are given two options for teams. Cake or Ice Cream. You can choose and put on your shirt. You get four different weapons. The player got the Dualies , Charger , Roller , and Splattershot . Global Testfire [ ] The Splatoon 2 Global Testfire was a free demo available for download on the Nintendo Switch eShop. It allowed players to battle in free Turf Wars for six one-hour scheduled playtimes ahead of the release of Splatoon 2 . These times spanned from March 24 to 26, 2017. Players were able to use the Splattershot , Splat Charger , Splat Dualies , and Splat Roller weapons. The Reef and Musselforge Fitness comprised the map rotation. Clothing and hairstyle were randomized for each player every match. Plot [ ] Story mode [ ] Splatoon 2 takes place approximately two years after the final Splatfest event of the first game , in which the pop idol Marie proved victorious over her cousin and fellow Squid Sister, Callie. While the two girls seem to carry on as normal afterwards, the usually inseparable cousins begin to spend more and more time apart due to their growing solo careers, with Marie beginning to worry about whether Callie was negatively affected by the Splatfest result. After going out of Inkopolis to see her parents, Marie returns home to discover that the Great Zapfish that powers the city has gone missing again, as has Callie. Fearing that the evil Octarians are once again involved, Marie takes up her role as Agent 2 of the New Squidbeak Splatoon again and recruits an Inkling from Inkopolis Square, the player character, to become Agent 4 and investigate. With assistance from both Marie and weapons expert Sheldon, Agent 4 makes their way through Octo Canyon fighting off Octarians and recovering several stolen Zapfish. They eventually discover that Callie herself has sided with the Octarians after being brainwashed by their leader, DJ Octavio. With everyone's effort, however, Marie manages to break Callie free from her mind control, and together they help Agent 4 defeat Octavio once again. With the Great Zapfish safely returned to Inkopolis, the Squid Sisters happily reunite and resume their musical career together. Octo Expansion [ ] To be added Gameplay [ ] Splatoon 2 plays like Splatoon , but with many new weapons to utilize. To compensate for the Nintendo Switch's lack of a dual-screen layout, the X button is now pressed to show the map menu, where a teammate to Super Jump to can be selected using the Directional Buttons. As a result, B is used to jump. Other than these, the controls are unchanged. The game can be played using all available controllers, though the standard will be to use the Joy-Con docked inside the Joy-Con Grip. The Nintendo Switch opens up possibilities for portable and local-multiplayer play. There will be other modes than private matches for local multiplayer, but only Private Battle Spectator View and LAN Play have been revealed. Splatoon 2 can connect to the Nintendo Switch's paid smart device app for additional multiplayer features, such as voice chat and scheduling matches. In multiplayer, images of each player's weapon are shown in the squid icons at the top of the screen. In addition to this, a players squid icon will flash metallically when their special weapon has charged. The game supports local multiplayer, even when the Nintendo Switch Console is taken on the go. More level elements from Splatoon's Hero Mode are to appear in the games' maps , such as Ink Railings being added to Moray Towers . Modes [ ] Turf War [ ] Turf War is the main online mode of the game. The object is to cover more ground with ink than the opposing team in three minutes. Ranked Battle [ ] Ranked Battle describes several competitive online modes where the player's rank is increased or decreased depending on wins and losses. Hero Mode [ ] A new Hero Mode will be available, expanding on the story of the Octarians who appear to be attacking again. Octo Expansion [ ] The Octo Expansion is a paid downloadable content for Splatoon 2, released on June 13, 2018. The package contains a new single player campaign consisting of 80 levels. The package includes new pieces of gear, including the Studio Headphones and Octo Layered LS which are unlocked immediately after purchase. The storyline follows Agent 8 , an Octoling with amnesia who explores subway stations underground connected to various research facilities, collecting “ Thangs ” in order to go to the “Promised land”. Salmon Run [ ] Salmon Run is a new PvE online mode. In-universe, it is run by the company Grizzco Industries , which has set up a part-time workplace for Inklings. Teams of four Inklings are sent to a faraway island to battle waves of the native Salmonid and receive Power Eggs . Inklings in Salmon Run gear. Inklings must wear special gear within this mode, including a lifesaver. If an Inkling is splatted, a teammate can revive them by inking the lifesaver they deploy. Golden Eggs are a rare drop from Boss Salmonids. An Inkling can carry one at a time in a small sack and must place Golden Eggs in a containment unit in the center of the map. Once enough Golden Eggs have been collected, the containment unit is shipped off back to Inkopolis. Rewards are proportional to the number of Golden Eggs the team collects. Locations [ ] The hub world of Splatoon 2 is Inkopolis Square , a section of Inkopolis separate from Inkopolis Plaza . A variety of maps and other locations have been showcased, including more rural areas similar to Octo Valley 's visual appearance. Inkopolis Square also has new statue monuments with a tortoise and an origami crane. Maps [ ] Name Image Description Humpback Pump Track A stage based off an indoor BMX track with lots of curvy ups and downs. This stage uses more abstract shapes in the center to make it harder to interact with the other enemies. Inkblot Art Academy A stage based off an outdoor art school. It has varying levels, highest being near the spawn points and lowest being on the wings. Moray Towers Returning from the first game, it has been enhanced with several new Inkrails which help short-range weapons counter chargers more easily. There has also been some more ground added, making falling off more difficult than before. Musselforge Fitness A stage based off a gym featuring an extensive rock-climbing wall that extends over the stage. It features many rough slopes that are located throughout. Port Mackerel Returning from the first game, its layout has been slightly modified and it has been enhanced with Sponge Blocks. The containers that used to crowd the center are absent, allowing players to climb on top of containers, while still having a very close quarters area. Starfish Mainstage A stage based off a concert venue. This stage has many tight corners, slopes and obstacles, especially in the center. Sturgeon Shipyard A stage based on a shipyard. It features bridges that are raised and lowered throughout the course of the battle. The Reef This is a popular spot to hang out while not in battle. The area under the bridge also counts towards the overall turf count. Shifty Station ( Splatfest exclusive) A stage set in an Octarian dome. This stage is exclusive to Splatfests and its layout changes in-between the events. Each layout prominently features one or more of the mechanics from Octo Canyon. Manta Maria A stage set on a large boat. There are gridded platforms around the masts, allowing long-range weapons like chargers to keep control of large areas. Kelp Dome Kelp Dome is a large, indoor greenhouse with many plants and corridors, it is one of the few stages where battles take place indoors. In Splatoon 2, it's featuring extra grates and turf. Snapper Canal A stage set in a suburban area. A river flows through the middle of the stage. The stage is square-shaped, large and open. Blackbelly Skatepark Returning from the first game with spawn points further back on elevated platforms that the enemy team cannot reach. Much wider and open than in the first game. Mako Mart MakoMart features a supermarket type environment, having many elevated platforms with often-inkable walls for players to stand on. Walleye Warehouse Returning from the first game, this stage is almost identical to its original version. Shellendorf Institute A stage set inside a history museum. Shellendorf Institute features an upper platform of glass ceiling with barely inkable spots. Arowana Mall Returning from the first game, Arowana Mall is a narrow battlefield that is set at an outdoor mall, decorated with stores, plants, and advertisements. It features two lower sections and one raised section in the center of the map that connects the lower sections Goby Arena A stage set in a basketball arena during the off-season. The center area is large and open, with pillars with hoops that play a tactical role in control of the stage. Piranha Pit Returning from the first game, Piranha Pit is a stage set in a quarry. The two conveyor belts in the middle have been moved further apart, and sponges have been added near the end of the conveyor belts in front of the spawns. Camp Triggerfish Returning from the first game, Camp Triggerfish is an outdoor leisure center. The two floodgates in the spawn area have been merged into one, and the area above has been widened. Although the floodgate still comes down at one minute remaining, Inkrails and sponges have been added to make getting to the other side easier. Wahoo World Wahoo World is based on a carnival. It has moving platforms in and around the center and bridges that expand and contract at thirty-second intervals New Albacore Hotel New Albacore Hotel is designed based on a pool at a hotel. There are various drops that lead to water and the stage is very open. Ancho-V Games Returning from the first game, Ancho-V Games is an office at a video game company. It features even more propeller platforms and new sponges. Skipper Pavilion Based on a traditional Japanese theater, it is laterally symmetrical stage that the spawn starts in high platforms and goes down until the center. Weapons [ ] Splatoon 2 introduces many weapons of all (and brand-new) types and classes. Over time, new models of the weapons will be released. Main Weapons [ ] A Splat Roller in use. In addition to new weaponry, all of the Main Weapons from the original Splatoon will reappear; but now come with different sets, new techniques, adjusted parameters, and recolored designs, altering their associated playstyles. Heavy Splatling , with adjustments to the barrel angle. Slosher , with cosmetic adjustments to the handle and suspension arm. Splat Charger , whose charge can be maintained by holding the ZR trigger while becoming a squid, though this gives off a glowing effect and is not indefinite. Splat Roller , which can now use a narrow long-range flick when fired while jumping. Splat Dualies , short-range twin pistols that can fire at two targets separately. They grant the ability to dodge-roll by pressing the B button while firing; this also leaves a pool of ink behind and temporarily combines the weapon's two reticles into one. Brella, An umbrella like weapon that shoots splats of ink like rain from a cloud, it can open up as a protection shield when trigger is held on for long enough. Splattershot , with cosmetic adjustments to the barrel. Shooters [ ] Sploosh-o-matic Neo Sploosh-o-matic Sploosh-o-matic 7 Splash-o-matic Neo Splash-o-matic Splattershot Jr. Custom Splattershot Jr. Kensa Splattershot Jr. Aerospray MG Aerospray RG Aerospray PG Splattershot Tentatek Splattershot Octo Shot Replica Kensa Splattershot .52 Gal .52 Gal Deco Kensa .52 Gal Splattershot Pro Forge Splattershot Pro .96 Gal .96 Gal Deco Jet Squelcher Custom Jet Squelcher Blasters [ ] Luna Blaster Luna Blaster Neo Kensa Luna Blaster Blaster Custom Blaster Range Blaster Grim Range Blaster Rapid Blaster Rapid Blaster Deco Kensa Rapid Blaster Rapid Blaster Pro Rapid Blaster Pro Deco Clash Blaster Clash Blaster Neo L-3 Nozzlenose L-3 Nozzlenose D Kensa L-3 Nozzlenose H-3 Nozzlenose H-3 Nozzlenose D Cherry H-3 Nozzlenose Squeezer Foil Squeezer Rollers [ ] Carbon Roller Carbon Roller Deco Splat Roller Krak-On Splat Roller Kensa Splat Roller Dynamo Roller Gold Dynamo Roller Kensa Dynamo Roller Flingza Roller Foil Flingza Roller Brushes [ ] Octobrush Octobrush Nouveau Kensa Octobrush Inkbrush Inkbrush Nouveau Permanent Inkbrush Chargers [ ] Goo Tuber Custom Goo Tuber Classic Squiffer New Squiffer Fresh Squiffer Bamboozler 14 Mk I Bamboozler 14 Mk II Bamboozler 14 Mk III E-liter 4K Custom E-liter 4K E-liter 4K Scope Custom E-liter 4K Scope Dualies [ ] Splat Dualies Enperry Splat Dualies Kensa Splat Dualies Dapple Dualies Dapple Dualies Nouveau Clear Dapple Dualies Glooga Dualies Glooga Dualies Deco Kensa Glooga Dualies Dark Tetra Dualies Light Tetra Dualies Brellas [ ] Splat Brella Kensa Splat Brella Tenta Brella Sorella Brella Tenta Sorella Brella Tenta Camo Brella Undercover Brella Kensa Undercover Brella Sloshers [ ] Sloshing Machine Sloshing Machine Neo Kensa Sloshing Machine Slosher Slosher Deco Soda Slosher Tri-Slosher Tri-Slosher Nouveau Splatlings [ ] Mini Splatling Zink Mini Splatling Kensa Mini Splatling Heavy Splatling Heavy Splatling Deco Heavy Splatling Remix Hydra Splatling Custom Hydra Splatling Ballpoint Splatling Ballpoint Splatling Nouveau Nautilus 47 Nautilus 79 Sub Weapons [ ] Burst Bomb Curling Bomb , a weapon that lays ink in a straight line, bouncing off walls before exploding when the meter on top runs out. Splat Bomb Suction Bomb Autobomb Ink Mine Toxic Mist Splash Wall Echolocator Sprinkler Squid Beakon Point Sensor Torpedo , a weapon that targets the foe, exploding on impact and splatting ink everywhere. Fizzy Bomb Special Weapons [ ] Splatoon 2 is set to have more Special Weapons than Splatoon , but all will be original; none of Splatoon's Special Weapons will reappear in this game. Inkjet , hovering the user in the air with a jetpack-like contraption, and allowing them to fire bursts of ink at will before launching them back to where the special was used. Splashdown , a large, immediate explosion of ink, also usable while Super Jumping to ensure a safe landing. Sting Ray , a power washer-like weapon that fires a concentrated stream of ink through solid surfaces yet is very slow to turn and has a Killer Wail -style indicator before firing. Tenta Missiles , a series of ink missiles that are aimed at other players and fall towards them from above, somewhat similar to an Inkstrike , with indicators to show their landing points. Bomb Launcher , allows the player to throw an unlimited number of bombs during the special's duration without using up any ink. The bombs thrown depend on the type of launcher used. Autobomb Launcher Burst Bomb Launcher Curling Bomb Launcher Splat Bomb Launcher Suction Bomb Launcher Ink Storm , A weather machine that creates a large, mobile raincloud of ink. Baller , a giant hamster ball that roll you anywhere and exploded. Ink Armor , increase your defense for your whole team for only one attack. Bubble Blower , a bubble blower wand that creates three large bubbles. Booyah Bomb , a glowing ball of ink that charges up over time and teammates using this signal will also slightly fill up their own special gauge. Ultra Stamp , an oversized squeaky toy hammer that continuously stamps ink on the floor while running and provides cover from the front while leaving the back exposed. amiibo support [ ] New Splatoon 2-compatible amiibo will be released, including several new designs for the Inkling Girl, Inkling Boy, and Inkling Squid. The amiibo compatible with Splatoon 2. The Splatoon 2 Inkling Girl and Inkling Boy amiibo can save customization data for weapon, hairstyle, and gear combinations and abilities and can be used to set them even on another Nintendo Switch. However, they are limited to holding customization for only Inklings of the same gender. The function of the Splatoon 2 Inkling Squid amiibo is currently unknown. An Inkling taking a selfie. Each amiibo enables the player to take selfies of their Inkling and post them to social media via the Nintendo Switch album. amiibo may also unlock exclusive items. The Inkling Girl may unlock Splatoon 2 logo earrings, a new schoolgirl uniform, and shoes. The Inkling Boy may unlock a ninja costume and a set of Splat Dualies . The Inkling Squid may unlock a metal power suit and a Dynamo Roller . All Splatoon amiibo are forwards-compatible with Splatoon 2. The Splatoon Inkling Boy, Inkling Girl, and Inkling Squid will unlock exclusive weapons. Customization [ ] Splatoon 2 offers greater customization of players' Inkling characters. In addition to preexisting types of clothing, different hairstyles and pants can also be worn, which have no impact on abilities . Music [ ] Off the Hook [ ] "Inkopolis News" "Inkopolis News (Splatfest)' " Color Pulse " " Ebb & Flow " " Acid Hues " " Muck Warfare " " Now or Never! " "Fest Zest" "Party's Over" " Nasty Majesty " " Shark Bytes " " Fly Octo Fly ~ Ebb & Flow (Octo) " " Into The Light " " #$@&* Dude #$@%* Be Sleepin' ~ Pearl Chat-Temp." "Ebb & Flow's Demo ~ Marina Chat-Temp." Squid Sisters [ ] "Low Tide" " Calamari Inkantation " " Fresh Start " " Bomb Rush Blush (DJ Octavio feat. Callie ver)" " Tidal Rush (DJ Octavio feat. Callie vs. Marie ver)" DJ Real Sole [ ] "New You (Ammo Knights variant)" "New You (Headspace variant)" "New You (Ye Olde Cloth Shoppe variant)" New You (Shella Fresh variant)" Mizuta Ahato [ ] " Splattack! (Octo)" "#0 shell" "#1 progress" "#2 ripped" "#4 dunno" "#5 thirsty" "#6 frisk" "#8 regret" "#9 party" "#11 above" "#12 awake" "#13 shade" "#14 crush" "#16 salty" "#19 bless" Wet Floor [ ] " Ink-oming " by Wet Floor " Rip Entry " by Wet Floor N/A [ ] " Lookin' Fresh " " Bubble Bath " " Cephaloparade " Gallery [ ] External links [ ] Official Nintendo website Categories Categories : Splatoon Series Games Splatoon 2 Community content is available under CC-BY-SA unless otherwise noted. More Fandoms Fantasy Splatoon Advertisement Explore properties Fandom Muthead Fanatical Follow Us Overview What is Fandom? About Careers Press Contact Terms of Use Privacy Policy Digital Services Act Global Sitemap Local Sitemap Community Community Central Support Help Advertise Media Kit Contact Fandom Apps Take your favorite fandoms with you and never miss a beat. Splatoon Wiki is a FANDOM Games Community. View Mobile Site Follow on IG TikTok Join Fan Lab