Stefanos Tsitsipas 'humbled' after failing to qualify for ATP Finals SHOP CLUB News Players Novak Djokovic Carlos Alcaraz Daniil Medvedev Alexander Zverev Stefanos Tsitsipas Emma Raducanu Roger Federer Rafa Nadal Andy Murray Serena Williams ATP WTA Tournaments Wimbledon US Open Roland Garros Australian Open Live tennis scores Gear Rackets Racket Reviews Guide to buying a racket Guide to racket strings Guide to racket specifications Clothing Shoes Balls & more Play Competitions Find a coach Coaching info Find players Find a court Holidays Academies Special offers from Tennishead magazine Current issue print version Current issue Free issues subscribe digital version archive Newsletter Log In SHOP CLUB Log in News Players Novak Djokovic Carlos Alcaraz Daniil Medvedev Alexander Zverev Stefanos Tsitsipas Emma Raducanu Roger Federer Rafa Nadal Andy Murray Serena Williams ATP WTA Tournaments Wimbledon US Open Roland Garros Australian Open Live tennis scores Gear Rackets Racket Reviews Guide to buying a racket Guide to racket strings Guide to racket specifications Clothing Shoes Balls & more Play Competitions Find a coach Coaching info Find players Find a court Holidays Academies Special offers from Tennishead magazine Current issue print version Current issue Free issues subscribe digital version archive Top December 3, 2024 ATP Tennis Players , Stefanos Tsitsipas , Tennis News , Tennis Tournaments Stefanos Tsitsipas admits he was ‘humbled’ after failing to qualify for the ATP Finals for first time since 2018 Stefanos Tsitsipas has expressed his disappointment at failing to qualify for the ATP Finals for the first time in six years, and revealed what the situation has taught him. Tsitsipas had qualified for the year-end tournament for five consecutive years, that included winning the event on his debut appearance back in 2019. And despite appearing in Turin last month as the second alternate, Tsitsipas did not compete at the ATP Finals for the first time since 2018 after ending the year ranked at World No.11. The Greek has had mixed results this year, winning his third Monte Carlo Masters title, but suffered early exits at both Wimbledon and the US Open. When reflecting on his season on Instagram, Tsitsipas explained what missing the ATP Finals had taught him, “Not making it into the ATP Finals this year was a humbling experience, teaching me the value of resilience and perspective. “I strive for it, but I’ve learned that perfection doesn’t exist within me, and that’s okay. Even if you wish for it, it doesn’t come just by the thought of it. The real difference lies in execution and consistent effort.” View this post on Instagram A post shared by Stefanos Tsitsipas (@stefanostsitsipas98) Tsitsipas has also undergone some big changes in 2024, having ended his working relationship with his father, Apostolos, back in August. The 26-year-old has since been working with Greek Davis Cup captain Dimitris Chatzinikolaou, and hinted at this big life update on this social media post. “Change isn’t necessarily a bad thing. It’s a process that requires patience and commitment,” said Tsitsipas. “Even if results don’t show right away. I trust that these changes will lead me to where I want to go.” Σας ενημερώνω με βαριά καρδιά ότι η συνεργασία μου με τον πατέρα μου ως προπονητής έχει φτάσει στο τέλος της. Προτιμώ να κρατήσω τον πατέρα μου στον ρόλο του ως πατέρας, και μόνο ως πατέρας. Η φιλοσοφία μας διδάσκει ότι η σοφία έρχεται μέσα από την κατανόηση των ορίων μας και… — Stefanos Tsitsipas (@steftsitsipas) August 9, 2024 Tsitsipas will look to take these lessons into the 2025 season, where he will begin representing Greece at the United Cup in Perth. Inside the baseline… It has been a strange season for Stefanos Tsitsipas, who has not really felt like much of a factor at the top of the game, other than at the Monte Carlo Masters where he has been so impressive in recent years. It has not been totally disastrous for Tsitsipas though, and with a bit more coaching stability in 2025 may be able to refind the form and confidence that enabled him to reach two Grand Slam finals and become World No.3. READ NEXT: Davis Cup announce new Finals host for the next three years Join >> Receive $700/£600 of tennis gear from the Tennishead CLUB Social >> Facebook , Twitter & YouTube Read >> World’s best tennis magazine Shop >> Lowest price tennis gear from our trusted partner By Matthew Johns 0 About the Author / Matthew Johns Matthew Johns, Tennishead Writer, is a professional tennis journalist with a specialist degree in Sports Journalism. He's a keen tennis player having represented his local club and University plus he's also a qualified tennis coach. Matthew has a deep knowledge of tennis especially the ATP Tour and thrives on breaking big tennis news stories for Tennishead. NEW GEN! Tennishead >> The World's most popular destination for tennis fans & players who want breaking tennis news, in-depth match analysis, tournament reporting, expert opinion, professional writing, tennis racket & gear reviews, videos, competitions & social media commentary. Tennishead.net is now the world's most visited tennis news website, Tennishead magazine is the world's favourite tennis publication and the Tennishead CLUB is our ground breaking virtual tennis community. Because TENNIS IS EVERYTHING ! Search for: About us Advertise with us Work for Tennishead Refer a friend to Tennishead Privacy policy | Cookie Policy | Terms & Conditions Tennishead.net is owned by Advantage Publishing (UK) Ltd. Company No: 05734573