Late Nintendo President's Book Outlines Vision for Company, Love of × Skip to main content Plus Icon Click to expand the Mega Menu Click to expand search form Got a tip? The Hollywood Reporter homepage Newsletters Subscribe The Definitive Voice of Entertainment News Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter See My Options Sign Up site categories News Film TV Music Awards Lifestyle Business International Video Charts Lists Plus Icon Click to expand the Mega Menu Menu Click to expand search form The Hollywood Reporter homepage Read Next: Ari Emanuel, Mark Shapiro and Bill Duffy to Buy WME’s Basketball Representation Business Subscribe The Definitive Voice of Entertainment News Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter See My Options Sign Up Home Business Digital Late Nintendo President’s Book Outlines Vision for Company, Love of Gaming In 'Ask Iwata,' publishing in English for the first time this month, Satoru Iwata also explains his approach towards employees and company culture. By The Associated Press Plus Icon The Associated Press More Stories by The Associated Press Virginia Giuffre, Who Accused Britain’s Prince Andrew in Epstein Sex Trafficking Scandal, Dies at 41 Kennedy Center Events Set for LGBTQ+ Pride Celebration Canceled, Organizers Say George Santos Sentenced to Over 7 Years in Prison for Fraud and Identity Theft View All April 12, 2021 8:25pm Share on Facebook Share on X Share to Flipboard Send an Email Show additional share options Share on LinkedIn Share on Pinterest Share on Reddit Share on Tumblr Share on Whats App Print the Article Post a Comment GABRIEL BOUYS/AFP via Getty Images Share on Facebook Share on X Share to Flipboard Send an Email Show additional share options Share on LinkedIn Share on Pinterest Share on Reddit Share on Tumblr Share on Whats App Print the Article Post a Comment Nintendo ’s late president Satoru Iwata oversaw the video-game maker’s global growth as Super Mario and Pokemon became household names. Ask Iwata was published after his death from cancer in 2015 at age 55. This month, VIZ Media is publishing the English translation of the book, which came out in Japanese in 2019. “On my business card, I am a corporate president. In my mind, I am a game developer. But in my heart, I am a gamer,” Iwata once said, one of many quotes that stand out in the book. Throughout the book, Iwata outlines his vision for Nintendo Co., which was to offer entertainment that everyone in the family could enjoy, regardless of age, gender and game playing skills. The company culture he fostered encouraged individual game creators, showing he was one of them at heart. Related Stories TV 'The Narrow Road to the Deep North' Producers On Bringing Richard Flanagan's Epic Book to the Screen: "A Really Important Australian Story" TV 'The Gardener' Producer José Manuel Lorenzo to Receive Conecta Fiction & Entertainment Honor Iwata was of a younger generation than the vanguard of Japanese manufacturing leaders who have grabbed global attention: Soichiro Honda, founder of the automaker that carries his name; Momofuku Ando, inventor of the instant noodle; Akio Morita, who started Sony in a repair shop amid bombed out rubble. Kyoto-based Nintendo started out making traditional Japanese playing cards but transitioned, as Iwata took over in 2002, to video games with offerings like the Wii console and the Nintendo DS handheld, as well as games played on cell phones. The company’s performance has had ups and downs like a Super Mario roller-coaster ride, but has done well lately as people stuck at home due to the pandemic turned to games. Profits for the nine months through December doubled from a year earlier to nearly 377 billion yen ($3.4 billion). That good fortune might not last as normal activities resume with vaccine rollouts, a change likely to crimp sales to the casual game users who make up Nintendo players, rather than the core gamers rival consoles tend to attract. The hoped-for end to the pandemic is likely to coincide, analysts say, with a peak in the so-called “life cycle,” or duration of consumer appeal, of Nintendo’s console offerings like the Switch. Questions also remain about Nintendo’s ability to monetize on the growing sector of mobile games. Consoles could continue to evolve, such as those with virtual reality, analysts say. Nintendo also has intellectual property, driving lucrative businesses such as merchandizing and theme parks. All those businesses thrived under Iwata’s presidency. Kenshu Kikuzawa, professor of business administration at Keio University, believes that Japanese companies’ strengths come from its traditional practices like lifetime employment and pay raises by seniority, which still characterize major Japanese companies including Nintendo. That in turns, breeds employee loyalty, which Kikuzawa believes is important in the creative work that drives Nintendo. Japanese companies should stick to being Japanese, doing what they do best, craftsmanship-like manufacturing, Kikuzawa said, exactly as Iwata led Nintendo. “Nintendo is in many ways a very old-fashioned Japanese company,” he said. “Ultimately, Nintendo employees just really love Nintendo. Loyalty to the company is fierce.” That kind of emotional commitment allows a company to overcome difficulties, even during periods of financial losses, as employees hang on and work hard for a turnaround, he said. Iwata showed talent for programming as a youngster. He was working part-time at Japan’s HAL Laboratory, known for the “Kirby” games and collaborating with Nintendo, before he graduated from the prestigious Tokyo Institute of Technology. He first made games for Nintendo Famicom machines, which came out in the 1980’s. Iwata was promoted to head HAL before taking the helm at Nintendo. His colleagues say he was a good listener, interviewing everyone at the company twice a year, trying to be fair and respectful. “My plan was to be a sounding board and to get a sense of what was happening, but when I sat down with each person individually, I was blown away by how much I was learning,” Iwata wrote. Shigesato Itoi, a writer, actor and creator of Nintendo’s “EarthBound” game series, featured comments from Iwata’s book on his personal website, and deeply admired him. “I have never seen him blame anyone or speak ill of anyone,” said Itoi, who knew Iwata for 25 years, and says he loved him like a younger brother. Instead of Hollywood-style grand battles, Japan excels at more peaceful blockbusters, like Nintendo’s “Animal Crossing,” Itoi said. He likened the game, which simulates living in a village, to children playing house. “It wasn’t exactly something that many experts in the game industry expected the world to find fun,” he said. “What Japan has to offer still has great potential.” Iwata sought to appeal to people who’d never played games before and to those who used to play but quit, said Kensuke Yabe, professor at Chukyo University’s School of Global Studies. “He had superbly good instincts about what was happening on the ground. To maximize their appeal, he made sure Nintendo consoles were designed for the living room,” said Yabe. When the Wii came out, Iwata insisted the controller be called a “remote,” a more familiar term evoking TV sets, rather than “controller.” He liked games for learning English, hanging out with a dog and cooking food. “A video game is interesting when you can have fun simply watching someone play,” Iwata wrote. Read More About: Bookshelf international Nintendo Video Games THR Newsletters Sign up for THR news straight to your inbox every day Subscribe Sign Up More from The Hollywood Reporter Writers Guild of America Writers Guild West Staff Union Voluntarily Recognized WME Ari Emanuel, Mark Shapiro and Bill Duffy to Buy WME’s Basketball Representation Business labor Cinematographers Guild Elects John Lindley Its National President Theater Broadway Box Office: ‘Good Night and Good Luck’ Continues Reign Snapchat Snapchat Tops 900M Monthly Active Users As Revenue Rises, But Warns of Economic “Headwinds” Francis Ford Coppola The Hollywood Reporter’s Rebecca Keegan Lands Deal to Pen Book on Coppola Family Shopping With THR Way Day Gets Extended: The 25 Best Deals From Kelly Clarkson’s Wayfair Line to Shawn Johnson’s Nashville Home By Erin Lassner Hollywood’s Top 15 Clean Beauty Picks Discounted for Credo’s Annual Sale By Erin Lassner The Best Luxury Gifts for Mother’s Day, From ‘Designer Cookies’ Loved by Emmy-Winning Stars to Amanda Seyfried’s Expensive-Smelling Hand Soaps By Danielle Directo-Meston Dyson’s Newest Smart Hair Tools Are On Sale for $100 — Where to Score the One-Day Beauty Deal By Danielle Directo-Meston , Erin Lassner THR Newsletters Sign up for THR news straight to your inbox every day Email Address Subscribe Today Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Most Popular ‘Andor’ Creator Explains That Shocking Assault Scene: “We’re All the Product of Rape” By James Hibberd Nikki Glaser Says Timothée Chalamet Almost Skipped Golden Globes Monologue So He Wouldn’t “Have to Deal” With Being Roasted: “I Get It” By Lexi Carson Lux Pascal Is a Proud Sister: “Pedro’s Taught Me There’s No Reason to Hide Who I Am” By Lily Ford Lar Park Lincoln, Actress in ‘Knots Landing’ and ‘Friday the 13th Part VII,’ Dies at 63 By Mike Barnes Harvey Weinstein’s Life Behind Bars: “He’s Still Running Sh**” (Exclusive) By Phoebe Eaton Must Reads Tina Fey on Her New Netflix Series: “It Saved Me From Just Shrinking Up Like a Little Granny Apple Head” By Mikey O'Connell No. 1 on the Call Sheet: Bella Ramsey Takes Charge of ‘The Last of Us’ By James Hibberd Justin Bieber’s Crisis of Faith? By Shirley Halperin The Definitive Voice of Entertainment News Subscribe for full access to The Hollywood Reporter SEE MY OPTIONS Sign Up PMC Logo Most Popular Bath & Body Works' Hand Soaps Just Hit Their Lowest Price of the Season — Stock Up for $3 Each Mary J. Blige Sued By Her Former Stylist, Misa Hylton, For $5 Million NFL Rookie Signing Bonuses Jump Record 26% for 2025 Draft 'Flattering' Portrait that Putin Gifted to Trump Last Month Finally Unveiled You may also like The Best Yoga Mats for Any Practice, According to Instructors 1 year ago 181 Fremont’s Grand Penthouse Redefines Urban Luxury 2 hours ago Michelle Obama Says Trump Administration’s Immigration Policies “Keep Her Up At Night” 2 hours ago Katy Perry Responds to Online Hate With Message to Fans: ‘I Keep Looking to the Light’ 7 hours ago Subscriber Support Get the Magazine Customer Service Back Issues E-edition Access The Hollywood Reporter About Us Media Kit Careers Contact Us Accessibility Legal Terms of Use Privacy Policy California Privacy Rights Privacy Preferences AdChoices Your Privacy Choices Follow Us Facebook Facebook Instagram Instagram X X YouTube YouTube Newsletter Sign Up Sign Up Subscribe Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Have a Tip? Send us a tip using our anonymous form. Send Us a Tip Sign Up Icon Link Plus Icon The Hollywood Reporter is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2025 The Hollywood Reporter, LLC. All Rights Reserved. THE HOLLYWOOD REPORTER is a registered trademark of The Hollywood Reporter, LLC. Powered by WordPress.com VIP Our Sites Art in America Artforum Artnews ATX TV ATX TV Festival BGR Billboard BlogHer Deadline Flow Space Footwear News Gold Derby IndieWire LA3C Life is Beautiful Robb Report Rolling Stone SheKnows Soaps Sourcing Journal Sportico Spy StyleCaster The Hollywood Reporter TVLine Variety Vibe WWD Close the menu The Hollywood Reporter homepage News Expand news menu Latest News Culture & Politics LA Wildfires Obituaries LA/Local THR Investigates Film Expand film menu News Features Reviews Box Office Heat Vision TV Expand tv menu News Features Reviews Ratings Live Feed Heat Vision The Fien Print Music Expand music menu Grammys K-Corner Awards Expand awards menu News Awards Chatter Podcast Feinberg Forecast Behind The Screen The Race THR Presents Oscar Season Hub Lifestyle Expand lifestyle menu Person of Interest News Style Shopping Arts Real Estate Rambling Reporter Business Expand business menu THR, Esq Report Features Unions / Labor Film / TV Tax Credits Signings / Representation THR Charts Expand thr-charts menu Streaming Ratings Broadcast Ratings Weekend Box Office Chart More Essentials Expand more-essentials menu International News Video THR Podcasts Featured Voices Follow Us Follow THR on Facebook Follow THR on Instagram Follow THR on X Follow THR on YouTube Alerts & Newsletters Your Email Subscribe Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. optional screen reader About Us Advertise Careers Contact Us Icon Link Plus Icon The Hollywood Reporter is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2025 The Hollywood Reporter, LLC. All Rights Reserved. THE HOLLYWOOD REPORTER is a registered trademark of The Hollywood Reporter, LLC. ad