Xenoblade Chronicles: Definitive Edition | Xenoblade Wiki | Fandom Start a Wiki Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In Xenoblade Wiki Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts Series Xenoblade Characters Places Items Gameplay Enemies Xenoblade 3D Definitive Edition Future Connected Xenoblade X Characters Places Items Gameplay Enemies Definitive Edition Xenoblade 2 Characters Places Items Gameplay Enemies Torna ~ The Golden Country Xenoblade 3 Characters Places Items Gameplay Enemies Future Redeemed Community Help Beginner Tutorial Code of Conduct FAQ Manual of Style Community Decisions Contact Admin Special Pages Wanted Pages Upload Photos Category List Stubs Achievements Leaderboard Recent Blog Posts Top Users Heroponsupert20 SakuDio WiseAdventurer NDS123 Catja Xolimpha UnknownUsename Affiliates Xenosaga Wiki Baten Kaitos Wiki Last Story Wiki Pandora's Tower Wiki Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In Explore Fan Central Current Advertisement Skip to content Xenoblade Wiki 24,638 pages Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts Series Xenoblade Characters Places Items Gameplay Enemies Xenoblade 3D Definitive Edition Future Connected Xenoblade X Characters Places Items Gameplay Enemies Definitive Edition Xenoblade 2 Characters Places Items Gameplay Enemies Torna ~ The Golden Country Xenoblade 3 Characters Places Items Gameplay Enemies Future Redeemed Community Help Beginner Tutorial Code of Conduct FAQ Manual of Style Community Decisions Contact Admin Special Pages Wanted Pages Upload Photos Category List Stubs Achievements Leaderboard Recent Blog Posts Top Users Heroponsupert20 SakuDio WiseAdventurer NDS123 Catja Xolimpha UnknownUsename Affiliates Xenosaga Wiki Baten Kaitos Wiki Last Story Wiki Pandora's Tower Wiki in: Xenoblade Chronicles: Definitive Edition , Xenoblade Chronicles , Games Xenoblade Chronicles: Definitive Edition Sign in to edit History Purge Talk (0) Xenoblade Chronicles: Definitive Edition Developer Monolith Soft Publisher Nintendo Composers Manami Kiyota Yoko Shimomura ACE Yasunori Mitsuda Arrangers Sarah Àlainn Genre Action-Role Playing Game modes Single-player Platform(s) Nintendo Switch Game file size 13.7 GB Languages American English, British English, Canadian French, French, German, Italian, Japanese, Korean, Latin American Spanish, European Spanish, Simplified Chinese, Traditional Chinese Rating CERO : C (15+) PEGI : 12 ACB : M ESRB : T Release date May 29, 2020 May 29, 2020 May 29, 2020 Xenoblade Chronicles: Definitive Edition (Japanese: ゼノブレイド ディフィニティブ・エディション ) is a role-playing video game published by Nintendo and developed by Monolith Soft for the Nintendo Switch. It is a remastered port of the original Xenoblade Chronicles . The game was announced at the end of the Nintendo Direct presentation on September 4, 2019. The game was released worldwide on May 29, 2020. Contents 1 Overview 1.1 Updates 1.1.1 Version 1.1.0 1.1.2 Version 1.1.1 1.1.3 Version 1.1.2 2 Collaborations 3 Gallery 3.1 Official Art 3.2 Box Art & Packaging 4 Trailers 5 External Links Overview [ ] The Definitive Edition improves the graphics of the original game with high-definition assets and redesigned key characters. Most music tracks were remastered with new recordings, although the original versions remain available as an option. The user interface has been updated for improved ease of use. The Definitive Edition does not include the features of Xenoblade Chronicles 3D , namely Collection Mode and amiibo compatibility. It is the first Xenoblade Chronicles release with new language options such as Korean, Simplified Chinese, and Traditional Chinese. A new epilogue story called Xenoblade Chronicles: Future Connected was included, centered around Shulk and Melia on Bionis' Shoulder accompanied by two of Riki 's children, Kino and Nene . This additional story is accessible from the beginning and it is not needed to clear the main storyline. The Time Attack entrance Time Attack is a new feature added to the main storyline, during which enemies must be defeated in the shortest possible time. It is similar to the Challenge Battle Mode of Xenoblade Chronicles 2 . Time Attack can be reached through portals that appear in various locations. The Nopon Archsage is waiting and will propose two types of challenges: "Free" challenges where the current party can be used, and "Restricted" challenges that use a set party. A selected task starts a time attack, enemies appear one after another and must be battled. Once they are all defeated, depending on the evaluation (cleared task time, battle success), Noponstone is earned and can be exchanged for equipment and gems, in particular new armour sets that are not obtainable in the normal game. The new Events Theater feature, similar to the one in Xenoblade Chronicles 2 , features every game event, and allows players to watch them again and to apply various modifications to the events as well (equipment, time , weather ). If there is Xenoblade Chronicles 2 save data present on the player's Nintendo Switch profile, the option to start a new game with 100,000 G will be available. Updates [ ] For the full patch notes, see [ How to update Xenoblade Chronicles: Definitive Edition ]. Several free updates have been released for the game on Switch. These are downloaded automatically when the game is launched if the console has a working internet connection. Each update can expand the game content or fix bugs and glitches. Version 1.1.0 [ ] The version 1.1.0 update was released on May 28, 2020. It included the following general issues: Fixed lockups that sometimes occurred on skip-travel and event-scene transition screens. Fixed an issue with the quest Finding Happiness where the incorrect speaker name was being displayed. Fixed an issue that prevented Status and Item details from displaying when the cursor was moved quickly between Cosmetic Equipment and Equipment on the Change Equipment screen. The buff icon now updates with the physical and ether defense buffs received and lost when the Monado Art “ Armor ” is activated and expires. Fixed the following issues with the enemy party of Leg Volffs when Napping Volffen moved toward the waterfall by the Volff Lair : Leg Volffs would continually move around and respawn in a small area, with an additional Leg Volff suddenly appearing. The Leg Volffs would stop at the watering hole instead of moving with Napping Volffen when it appeared. Battling any remaining Leg Volffs would cause the battle to end abruptly, and battles would start and stop as soon as you entered their line of sight. Fixed an issue where sound effects would continue into the subsequent scene when event skip was used during a scene where the future is shown. Fixed an issue where continuing to use the debuff skill “Lock-on” on an enemy would cause it to target only the first user of the skill. Fixed a lockup that occurred in the Central Pit when boarding the elevator with your controlled character at a certain time during its descent. Version 1.1.1 [ ] The version 1.1.1 update was released on May 28, 2020. It included the following general issues: Fixed an issue that prevented the Arts Palette from closing when no selectable arts were available during a Chain Attack. Fixed an issue that prevented the Arts Palette from closing when no selectable arts were available during a Chain Attack and the Junk Sword was equipped. Version 1.1.2 [ ] The version 1.1.2 update was released on July 8, 2020. It included the following general issues: Feature Changes Changing the Tutorial notifications in Notification Settings to Don’t Notify will now cause recommendations to try Casual Mode to not appear. This can be set through Options → Notification Settings and setting Tutorials to Don’t Notify. Some of the “!” icons appearing on the area map and in the field while using Travel Guidance can now be disabled. Disabling them will remove them from enemies and collectibles concerning the quest, however they will still appear above the quest-giving NPC as usual. This can be set through Options → Display Settings and setting Travel Guidance to Hide. Spec Adjustments Starting a New Game Plus after lowering character levels in the New Game Plus Settings could cause the number of Affinity Coins held to decrease. If this has occurred, loading save data will apply the correct amount. Starting a New Game Plus after lowering character levels in the New Game + Settings would result in more Skill Links being active than Affinity Coins available for them. If this has occurred, removing Skill Links so that they are lower than the number of Affinity Coins will cause them to function as usual. Additionally, Skill Links can be removed with the + Button. Fixed the attack-interval value during battle for some characters (Shulk, Reyn, and Nene are unaffected). The attack intervals while affected by Slow will slow down and quicken while affected by Haste—making it easier to sense when affected by Haste/Slow. Fixed an issue after a boss fight in Chapter 16 where three-slot weapons would become two-slot weapons, with all equipped gems being removed. Fixed an issue where switching the BGM between Arranged and Original in the options during certain event scenes wouldn’t affect the song “Engage the Enemy.” "Engage the Enemy" can be changed with Toggle Field BGM in the Options. Lockups Fixed a lockup that occurred when closing the quest-clear dialogue during the quest Clearing Obstructions after Reyn’s level rose to 16 after beating three Zealous Arachnos. Fixed a lockup that sometimes occurred when battling Nero Andos. Fixed an issue that caused the player to become uncontrollable when attempting to trade with an NPC who disappeared due to the passage of time. Fixed an issue that caused the player to become uncontrollable when falling off a ledge just before seeing a vision from a collectible. Fixed an issue that caused the player to become uncontrollable after finishing a battle while unconscious. Fixed a lockup that occurred when changing gems or the time on the main menu during the interval in the last battle. Fixed a lockup that occurred when bringing up information dialogue while pressing the – Button to call up Help at the same time. Fixed an issue that caused characters to be in the topple status when an event scene and a vision prompted by a collectible item would occur at the same time. Other Fixes Fixed an issue that caused the quest to become unacceptable when changing to a different event or changing the time while talking to a quest-giving NPC. Fixed an issue where if the controlled character were cheered up and HP were restored at the same time they lost consciousness, they would lose consciousness with that amount of HP remaining. Fixed an issue where Travel Guidance wouldn’t display correctly during the quest Monado Replica 5. Fixed an issue where selecting Arts simultaneously with being dazed would cause the character to be stuck in the fainting motion. Fixed an issue where accepting a quest with the Weapon Development Lab as its destination would cause the Travel Guidance route not to appear. Fixed an issue where loading an autosave file after hearing a quest-acceptance conversation would cause quest progress already seen to return to that before having heard the conversation. Fixed an issue that caused battles with Gentle Mother Armu, Baby Armus, and Deluded Ignas to be disengaged too easily. Fixed an issue where changing the controlled character while climbing a wall would cause the character to fall through the wall. Fixed an issue where the BGM wouldn’t play during certain event scenes. Fixed an issue where in Chapter Nine, while the Mechon soldiers do battle with the Laias on Prison Island, viewing Prison Island from Eryth Sea would show the battle effects, but they weren’t visible from Imperial Capitol Alcamoth. Fixed an issue that caused leveling up after defeating an enemy with a Chain Attack to cause the numeric display of the level to appear strange. Although the added damage would function properly, fixed an issue that caused the damage displayed on screen to appear 256 points lower than the actual value when the additional damage value of added attack gems would surpass 256. Collaborations [ ] Through the 14th MAXIMUS CUP event trailer of Tetris 99 published on June 23, 2020, Nintendo announced that after having accumulated a total of 100 event points, earned based on the placement in each match, a new theme will unlock, featuring art, music and Tetrimino designs inspired by Xenoblade Chronicles: Definitive Edition . The music is specifically " Time to Fight! " when starting, " Mechanical Rhythm " at the top 50, and " You Will Know Our Names " at the top 10. Gallery [ ] Official Art [ ] Official artwork of Shulk, Melia, Nene, and Kino on the Bionis Shoulder. Cover art in high resolution. Game Logo Box Art & Packaging [ ] Official art of the remastered cover. German box art. UK box art. US box art. The EU special edition of the game. US packaging of the special edition. Trailers [ ] 7 Minutes of Relaxation with Xenoblade Chronicles Definitive Edition 7 Minutes of Relaxation with Xenoblade Chronicles: Definitive Edition from Nintendo of America Xenoblade Chronicles Definitive Edition - Available Now - Nintendo Switch Xenoblade Chronicles: Definitive Edition new trailer from Nintendo of America TETRIS® 99 Grand Prix 14 (Nintendo Switch) Tetris 99 x Xenoblade Chronicles: Definitive Edition for TETRIS® 99 Grand Prix 14 Tetris® 99 - 14th MAXIMUS CUP Gameplay Trailer - Nintendo Switch Xenoblade Chronicles: Definitive Edition theme in Tetris 99 Xenoblade Chronicles Definitive Edition Deep Dive! Nintendo Power Podcast Nintendo Power Podcast about Xenoblade Chronicles: Definitive Edition Xenoblade Chronicles Definitive Edition - Accolades Trailer - Nintendo Switch Xenoblade Chronicles: Definitive Edition "Accolades" Trailer Out now - Xenoblade Chronicles Definitive Edition (Nintendo Switch) Xenoblade Chronicles: Definitive Edition "Out Now" Trailer Xenoblade Chronicles Definitive Edition - Launch Trailer - Nintendo Switch Xenoblade Chronicles: Definitive Edition Launch Trailer Welcome to the World of Xenoblade Chronicles Definitive Edition - Nintendo Switch Welcome to the World of Xenoblade Chronicles: Definitive Edition trailer ゼノブレイド ディフィニティブ・エディション WebCM5 Xenoblade Chronicles: Definitive Edition Web Commercial 5 ゼノブレイド ディフィニティブ・エディション WebCM4 Xenoblade Chronicles: Definitive Edition Web Commercial 4 ゼノブレイド ディフィニティブ・エディション WebCM3 Xenoblade Chronicles: Definitive Edition Web Commercial 3 All about Xenoblade Chronicles Definitive Edition - Nintendo Switch All about Xenoblade Chronicles: Definitive Edition Trailer Xenoblade Chronicles Definitive Edition - Meet the cast (Nintendo Switch) "Meet the cast" Trailer ゼノブレイド ディフィニティブ・エディション 紹介映像 Xenoblade Chronicles: Definitive Edition Introduction Video ゼノブレイド ディフィニティブ・エディション WebCM2 Xenoblade Chronicles: Definitive Edition Web Commercial 2 ゼノブレイド ディフィニティブ・エディション WebCM1 Xenoblade Chronicles: Definitive Edition Web Commercial 1 Xenoblade Chronicles Definitive Edition - Nintendo Direct Mini 3.26.20 - Nintendo Switch Xenoblade Chronicles: Definitive Edition Nintendo Direct Mini 3.26.20 Trailer ゼノブレイド ディフィニティブ・エディション Nintendo Direct mini 2020.3.26 Xenoblade Chronicles: Definitive Edition Nintendo Direct Mini 3.26.20 Trailer Xenoblade Chronicles Definitive Edition - Announcement Trailer - Nintendo Switch Xenoblade Chronicles: Definitive Edition Announcement Trailer ゼノブレイド ディフィニティブ・エディション Nintendo Direct 2019.9.5 Xenoblade Chronicles: Definitive Edition Japanese Announcement Trailer External Links [ ] Definitive Edition official US website UK website Japanese website How to Update Xenoblade Chronicles: Definitive Edition from official US website (includes details of what is in each update) Update data of Xenoblade Chronicles: Definitive Edition from official JP website TETRIS® 99 Grand Prix 14 featuring Xenoblade Chronicles: Definitive Edition (UK) TETRIS® 99 Grand Prix 14 featuring Xenoblade Chronicles: Definitive Edition (Japan) Categories Categories : Xenoblade Chronicles: Definitive Edition Xenoblade Chronicles Games Community content is available under CC-BY-SA unless otherwise noted. More Fandoms Fantasy Sci-fi Xenoblade Advertisement Explore properties Fandom Muthead Fanatical Follow Us Overview What is Fandom? About Careers Press Contact Terms of Use Privacy Policy Digital Services Act Global Sitemap Local Sitemap Community Community Central Support Help Advertise Media Kit Contact Fandom Apps Take your favorite fandoms with you and never miss a beat. Xenoblade Wiki is a FANDOM Games Community. View Mobile Site Follow on IG TikTok Join Fan Lab