Nintendo reveals Switch 2 console due to launch on 5 June | Games | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 3 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Skip to navigation Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Lifestyle View all Lifestyle Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing About Us Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Nintendo Switch 2 console. Photograph: Nintendo View image in fullscreen Nintendo Switch 2 console. Photograph: Nintendo Games Nintendo reveals Switch 2 console due to launch on 5 June New console features larger screen, double the pixels and magnetically attached controllers Keith Stuart Wed 2 Apr 2025 11.13 EDT Last modified on Wed 2 Apr 2025 12.01 EDT Share After months of intense speculation and cryptic teaser videos, Nintendo has finally unveiled the successor to its Switch console. The Nintendo Switch 2 will launch on 5 June at a retail price of £395.99 for the basic package and £429.99 bundled with Mario Kart World. As expected, the screen is now larger, measuring 7.9 inches and offers double the pixels of the previous display, in 1080p resolution. It also supports up to 120 frames per second for smooth animation, as well as high dynamic range lighting for better colour contrast, while the console remains the same thickness as its predecessor. The dock allows connection to a TV with up to 4K resolution supported. The redesigned Joy-Con 2 controllers now connect to the console magnetically. The SL and SR buttons are larger to make it more comfortable to use the Joy-Cons as indepedent controllers. Each one can also be used as a mouse, with a rollerball for precise movement. This feature was illustrated with a wheelchair basketball game, Drag X Drive, in which the two Joy-Cons are used to push and steer the wheels. The announcement live stream began with a trailer for launch title Mario Kart World, a new entry in the karting series featuring stunningly detailed circuits and an open world map. Races take place in different regions around the planet, while players are free to go off-road while racing. View image in fullscreen Nintendo Switch 2. Photograph: Nintendo Also announced was Legend of Zelda Hyrule Warriors: Age of Imprisonment, a prequel to Tears of the Kingdom coming this winter. Aerial racer Kirby Air Riders and a new Donkey Kong adventure, Donkey Kong Bananza, were also revealed, the latter arriving on 17 July. Several third-party titles were introduced throughout the hour-long stream. These included a new title from Dark Souls creator, From Software – The DuskBloods – a dark adventure filled with spectral warriors and ferocious dinosaurs; it’s out in 2026. Expected for launch or shortly after are Elden Ring Tarnished Edition, Hades II, Split Fiction, EA Sports FC, Madden NFL, Street Fighter 6 and Hitman World of Assassination. Hitman developer Io Interactive also revealed the development of a new James Bond game for the console. Other technical details were also discussed. Switch 2’s built-in speakers have been improved, with 3D audio supported. The new stand offers more sturdy support with a variety of viewing angles. Nintendo’s online network, Nintendo Switch Online, will offer a range of new downloadable retro games from GameCube and other systems, including Legend of Zelda Wind Waker and Soulcalibur II. A reproduction GameCube controller will be available to purchase alongside the Switch 2 launch. Like its predecessor, Switch 2 is a hybrid system, allowing users to play games on its built-in screen or on a TV, and users will be able to alternate between the two. The machine also offers full backwards compatibility with most original Switch games. Switch 2 updated games will also offer upgraded visuals. Launching soon after the console, the party game Super Mario Jamboree: Nintendo Switch 2 edition offers mouse controls, audio recognition, camera support and better rumble effects. Legend of Zelda Breath of The Wild: Nintendo Switch 2 edition features higher resolution visuals and new gameplay features, including an in-game smartphone-style map app. Metroid Prime 4: Beyond, Pokémon Legends and Kirby and the Forgotten Land will also get Switch 2 editions. Owners of the original titles will be able to purchase upgrade packs. skip past newsletter promotion Sign up to Pushing Buttons Free weekly newsletter Keza MacDonald's weekly look at the world of gaming Enter your email address Sign up Privacy Notice: Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our Privacy Policy . We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. after newsletter promotion View image in fullscreen Used as a mouse … a Switch 2 controller. Photograph: Nintendo Nintendo is going big on the social features of its new console. The right Joy-Con has a new C button, which gives access to GameChat and an in-game communication feature which lets users chat to friends while playing. The mic in the console recognises your voice, filtering out ambient sounds for clear comms. Players can share their game screens with others in the chat even if everyone is playing different games. A Nintendo Switch 2 camera, available from launch, connects to the console allowing video chat while playing. A new GameShare feature will allow users to share a single game with up to three other players who can take part using their own Switch 2 machines. The original Switch was launched in March 2017 and went on to become the company’s most successful home console, selling more than 150m units including its later Switch Lite and Switch OLED editions. While Switch 2 remains technically behind the PlayStation 5 and Xbox Series X, Nintendo has long competed on innovation and game quality rather than specifications. With a broader games lineup than the original machine, more advanced visuals and a more intuitive design for its Joy-Con controllers, this was a strong introduction. “You’ll have to wait just a little bit longer for launch,” said Switch 2 design director Takuhiro Dohta at the close of the live stream. For avid Nintendo fans that will feel like an eternity. Explore more on these topics Games Nintendo Nintendo Switch Games consoles news Share Reuse this content Most viewed Most viewed Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections SecureDrop Work for us Privacy policy Cookie policy Terms & conditions Contact us All topics All writers Digital newspaper archive Tax strategy Facebook YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Newsletters Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Back to top © 2025 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)