What Critics Think of ‘Avatar: Way of Water’: Review Roundup Intelligencer The Cut Vulture The Strategist Curbed Grub Street Magazine Subscribe to the Magazine Give a Gift Subscription Buy Back Issues Current Issue Contents New York Shop Subscribe Sign In Account Profile Saved for later Sign Out Menu Menu Close Close TV Recaps TV Movies Comedy Music What to Stream Books Theater Art Awards Coverage Podcasts Criticism About Newsletters New York App Cinematrix Archive Vulture Festival Like Us Follow Us Follow Us NYMag.com New York Magazine Intelligencer Vulture The Cut The Strategist Grub Street Curbed Search Search Close Subscribe Give A Gift Menu Menu Close Close TV Recaps TV Movies Comedy Music What to Stream Books Theater Art Awards Coverage Podcasts Criticism About Newsletters New York App Cinematrix Archive Vulture Festival Like Us Follow Us Follow Us NYMag.com New York Magazine Intelligencer Vulture The Cut The Strategist Grub Street Curbed Leave a Comment Search Search Close Things you buy through our links may earn Vox Media a commission. review roundup Avatar: The Way of Water Critical Reactions Vary More Than the Frame Rates By Rebecca Alter , a staff writer who covers comedy and pop culture Dec. 13, 2022 save d Save this article to read it later. Find this story in your account’s ‘Saved for Later’ section. Comment Photo: 20th Century Studios It’s here. Earthling movie critics are officially versed in water and its ways as early reviews for Avatar: The Way of Water begin to come in. It’s no surprise that the technical aspects of James Cameron’s passion project remain marvelous , particularly in the rendering of alien aquatic life and action sequences. However, critical reaction to Cameron’s variable frame rate … varies. Then there are the more basic storytelling aspects in which the sequel appears to improve on the original, at least to some critics, who are invested in the story of Na’vi teens and Pandora’s hyperintelligent space whales. Others find the plot overly familiar and the dialogue rote. Below, critics who sat through three hours of Avatar: The Way of Water live to tell a whale of a tale. “For starters, the effects work is unbelievable; I still haven’t entirely wrapped my head around the fact that none of this stuff actually exists, that it’s all a meticulously rendered digital environment. But, more important, Cameron hasn’t lost the ability to convey his dorky-sweet enthusiasm to the audience. It’s hard not to lose oneself amid the gentle, flowing cadences of this exquisitely created undersea universe, where the water enveloping the characters gradually becomes a metaphor for the interconnectedness of all living beings.” — Bilge Ebiri , Vulture “But although I was not surprised that The Way of Water ’s visuals blew me away, I was shockingly invested in the emotional complications of the Sully family (many threads are left dangling for the already confirmed Avatar 3 ). Maintaining a sense of stakes will be necessary for the series going forward, especially if it plans on rolling out new entries at a quicker pace. But for The Way of Water , the decadence is more than enough—for cinemas that have been starved of authentic spectacle, finally, here’s a gorgeous three-course meal of it.” — David Sims , The Atlantic “It’s the most rapturous, awe-inducing, only in theaters return to the cinema of attractions since Godard experimented with double exposure 3D in Goodbye to Language , whether swimming with schools of alien fish or introducing us to the four-eyed, 300-foot-long whale-like tulkun (who prove central to the plot and communicate in subtitled Papyrus), these scenes have more in common with VR or lucid dreaming than whatever rinky-dink CGI we’re forced to swallow with every new superhero movie, and Cameron lets us soak up every frame. If we can fall in love with this world and be compelled by the fight to save it, why can’t we do the same with our own?” — David Ehrlich , IndieWire “Maybe Cameron reacquainted himself with the work of Sam Raimi. Maybe he’s drinking from the same cup as S.S. Rajamouli , who made the magnificent, absolutely ludicrous Indian import RRR . In The Way of Water , Cameron leans all the way into manic mayhem, smash-cutting from one outrageous image to the next. The final act of this movie shows off a freeing attitude he’s never fully embraced before in his action — even action that’s strikingly similar, like the massive sinking ship sequence in Titanic . James Cameron has some expertise in this arena, but this time out, it feels like he’s having a lot more fun.” — Jordan Hoffman , Polygon “This wildly entertaining film isn’t a retread of Avatar , but a film in which fans can pick out thematic and even visual elements of Titanic , Aliens , The Abyss , and The Terminator films. It’s as if Cameron has moved to Pandora forever and brought everything he cares about. (He’s also clearly never leaving.) Cameron invites viewers into this fully realized world with so many striking images and phenomenally rendered action scenes that everything else fades away.” — Brian Tallerico , RogerEbert.com “Cue another immersive, action-packed adventure, but this time with a more nuanced message. Whereas Avatar bashed its audience on the head with repeated references to spirituality and the balance of life, Way Of The Water is primarily about family (though there is one gut-wrenching scene that makes for a most effective anti-hunting advert). It finds a believable way to bring back characters from the first movie, and sets up the overarching plot for future instalments. This is sharp, considered storytelling.” — Ali Shutler , NME “The submarine world of this film is, in its way, its chief character and its whole point. The move from land- to sea-based existence is the way a new film was created. But the sea world is imagined with a lot of cliche. Frankly, there isn’t a single interesting visual image and the whole thing has the non-briny smell of a MacBook Pro. Finding Nemo was more vivid.” — Peter Bradshaw , The Guardian “How much you care about the fate of a bunch of outsize blue people will depend on your appetite for a sci-fi survival story that draws from classic Westerns while upping the stakes with the threat of genocide. Either way, this is a big movie, monumental even, that justifies its three hours-plus of screen time and its mammoth financial investment.” — David Rooney, The Hollywood Reporter “It’s best to not think too hard about certain things — for example, at least one immaculate conception — and just weather others, as in one long bit akin to an extremely cruel animal documentary. And while the visual effects are on the whole pretty fantastic, the film every so often resembles a video game or a theme-park ride that seems sort of wonky compared to the more sumptuous parts.” — Brian Truitt , USA Today “And while his VFX team has done a remarkable job blooming emotion on their green and blue visages, the lackluster writing gives these performances suffocatingly little to play with. The likes of Zoe Saldaña, Sigourney Weaver, Kate Winslet, and Interview with a Vampire scene-stealer Bailey Bass are squandered in paper-thin roles, of women who are either beatific in awe of nature or baring their teeth in tears. These are not people but poster girls either of bliss or pain. And so their emotional journeys feel hollow, even as we can see their worlds falling apart.” — Kristy Puchko , Mashable “Edie Falco thanklessly barks exposition in fatigues, a scientist randomly reveals that he possesses the key to eternal life, and the finale resorts to cheap bathos before setting up forthcoming sequels. Whenever it’s not losing itself in kinetic mayhem, The Way of Water is interminable and full of itself—and ultimately, that turns out to be most of the time. In the first of his many functional voiceovers, Jake intones, ‘The most dangerous thing about Pandora is that you may come to love her too much.’ That’s clearly true for Cameron, but he should speak for himself.” — Nick Schager , The Daily Beast “ Avatar: The Way of Water explores enough new story beats, and raises the stakes for its characters through tension to justify the continuation of the first film’s narrative. Engaging, enjoyable, and one of the most beautiful films of the year, The Way of the Water is a transformative movie experience that energizes and captivates the senses through its visual storytelling, making the return to Pandora well worth the wait.” — Mae Abdulbaki , ScreenRant “But it’s worth saying this: When Cameron’s 3D cauldron of spells is at a high boil, the end result is nothing less than an upgrade on reality. At its best, you find yourself resenting the edges of the screen, for keeping you from feeling fully immersed in this world.” — Liz Shannon Miller , Consequence Related Avatar: The Way of Water Is James Cameron’s Most Personal Film Tags: review roundup avatar: the way of water avatar movies news james cameron 100 days of avatar More Show Leave a Comment Here’s What Critics Think of Avatar: The Way of Wate r Things you buy through our links may earn Vox Media a commission. Most Viewed Stories Cinematrix No. 399: April 29, 2025 Christie Brinkley Gave Billy Joel One Too Many Chances The Handmaid’s Tale Recap: Enemy of My Enemy The Best Books of 2025 (So Far) Below Deck Down Under Recap: The Calm Before the Storm Christie Brinkley Gave Billy Joel One Too Many Chances Cinematrix No. 399: April 29, 2025 The Handmaid’s Tale Recap: Enemy of My Enemy The Best Books of 2025 (So Far) Below Deck Down Under Recap: The Calm Before the Storm Sign In to Comment Most Popular Cinematrix No. 399: April 29, 2025 Christie Brinkley Gave Billy Joel One Too Many Chances The Handmaid’s Tale Recap: Enemy of My Enemy The Best Books of 2025 (So Far) Below Deck Down Under Recap: The Calm Before the Storm Christie Brinkley Gave Billy Joel One Too Many Chances Cinematrix No. 399: April 29, 2025 The Handmaid’s Tale Recap: Enemy of My Enemy The Best Books of 2025 (So Far) Below Deck Down Under Recap: The Calm Before the Storm Latest News from Vulture overnights 28 mins ago Andor Recap: Friends Everywhere This episode sets up an interesting parallel between Cassian and Syril, who temporarily switch planets for the similar purposes of sizing up Ghorman. overnights 10:00 p.m. The Valley Recap: Dave and Busted With Jax in time-out, Jesse torments Michelle and is now the uncontested No. 1 villain in the valley. overnights 10:00 p.m. Andor Recap: No Creature Comforts With Cassian and Bix, we’re seeing a pair of devoted but frayed rebel fighters in their downtime, which can be its own form of hell. space atlas 9:34 p.m. Where in the Galaxy Is Andor Now? Wheat planet? Jungle planet? Spider planet? Here are the Star Wars locales, both new and familiar, to get acquainted with this season. attention rkpfs 8:48 p.m. Bravo Will Get Las Culturistas in Los Angeles For the first televised broadcast of Bowen Yang and Matt Rogers’s Culture Awards. they're illusions michael! 5:51 p.m. Which Chilly Bobbed Blonde Would Win in a Fight? Stair Wars. it never ends 5:28 p.m. Please Exclude Them From the Narrative Neither Marvel nor Taylor Swift wants anything to do with the ongoing Baldoni-Lively case. chat room 3:59 p.m. Krysta Rodriguez Is Smash ’s TV Holdover “I always describe it to fans of the show as Smash fan fiction.” the festival circuit 3:05 p.m. The Ultimate Guide to 2025’s Can’t-Miss Music Festivals Plan ahead for marquee acts, tolerable travel, and … punk-rock bowling? Let’s go. ding! 2:01 p.m. Martin Short Hosting a Game Show? It’s a Match ! ABC’s bringing back Match Game – this time without Alec Baldwin. shhhh 1:40 p.m. Walton Goggins Blesses Us With a Teenjus Banger The actor’s Instagram clip of him rapping during a recording session for The Righteous Gemstones is meme fodder for the ages. overnights 12:00 p.m. The Handmaid’s Tale Recap: Enemy of My Enemy This season has been preparing us for this kind of treachery, and yet I was dumbstruck to see it happen. movie review 12:00 p.m. Thunderbolts* Really Is Marvel’s Answer to an A24 Movie The MCU’s anti-hero team-up is less Suicide Squad than Everything Everywhere All At Once . By Alison Willmore déjà vu 11:27 a.m. Beyoncé Brings Both Her Daughters to the Cowboy Carter Tour We swear, it’s déjà vu. father figures 11:00 a.m. What Is Up, Daddy Gang? It’s Your Call Her Daddy TV Show. Call Her Alex, Alex Cooper’s Hulu docuseries, will be directed by Ry Russo-Young. vulture recommends 10:43 a.m. Blue Prince Is Not Scary Unless you’re afraid of math. the uptown girl 10:17 a.m. Christie Brinkley Gave Billy Joel One Too Many Chances In her new memoir, the model recounts her ex-husband’s drunken outbursts, including a chaise longue thrown through patio doors. By Devon Ivie new look who dis 9:06 a.m. Wait, Is That Dwayne Johnson in the New Benny Safdie Movie? Johnson transforms into UFC fighter Mark Kerr for The Smashing Machine. influences 9:00 a.m. ‘I Had No Clue What I Was Doing’ How David Foster composed the complicated cartoon music for Boop! The Musical . By Devon Ivie best of 2025 9:00 a.m. The Best Books of 2025 (So Far) What if Tomorrow, and Tomorrow, and Tomorrow was written like The Savage Detectives ? More Stories Have an Account? Log In TV Movies Comedy Music Books What To Stream Like Us Follow Us Follow Us Follow Us About Vulture About New York Magazine Newsletters Help Contact Press Media Kit We’re Hiring Privacy Terms Ad Choices Accessibility Do not sell or share my personal data vulture is a Vox Media Network . © 2025 Vox Media, LLC. All rights reserved.