Podcast: Tabatha Rosproy, First Early Childhood Educator Named National Teacher of the Year - Children's Institute Sign up for our newsletter! >> Making Oregon the best place to be a kid. Who We Are About Us Our Staff Team Board of Directors Alexander Award Work For CI Contact Us Our Work What We Do Policy & Advocacy Oregon’s Early Childhood Coalition Early Works Early Works – Yoncalla Elementary School Early Works – Earl Boyles Elementary School Early School Success Change Library Early School Success Academy Health and Learning Initiative The Campaign for Grade-Level Reading Join Us Events Sign Up For Updates Donate Today Champions for Children Luncheon Resources Early Literacy Resources Annual Reports 2024 Annual Report 2023 Annual Report 2022 Annual Report Policy Resources Reimagining Early Childhood Infrastructure Racial Equity Resources Change Library Content The Latest The Early Link Podcast Publications Videos DONATE ♥ Sign up for our newsletter! >> Donate Today! Making Oregon the best place to be a kid. Who We Are About Us Our Staff Team Board of Directors Alexander Award Work For CI Contact Us Our Work What We Do Policy & Advocacy Oregon’s Early Childhood Coalition Early Works Early Works – Yoncalla Elementary School Early Works – Earl Boyles Elementary School Early School Success Change Library Early School Success Academy Health and Learning Initiative The Campaign for Grade-Level Reading Join Us Events Sign Up For Updates Donate Today Champions for Children Luncheon Resources Early Literacy Resources Annual Reports 2024 Annual Report 2023 Annual Report 2022 Annual Report Policy Resources Reimagining Early Childhood Infrastructure Racial Equity Resources Change Library Content The Latest The Early Link Podcast Publications Videos b Podcast / Educators and Workforce / Teacher Voice Podcast: Tabatha Rosproy, First Early Childhood Educator Named National Teacher of the Year j By Rafael Otto } June 12, 2020 In this week’s episode, host Rafael Otto speaks with Tabatha Rosproy, the first early childhood educator to be named National Teacher of the Year. Guest: Tabatha Rosproy , a 10-year veteran Kansas teacher, is the first early childhood educator to be named National Teacher of the Year. She teaches preschool for Winfield Early Learning Center (WELC) in Winfield, Kansas. Housed in Cumbernauld Village, a local retirement community and nursing home, her inclusive classroom is an inter-generational program that provides preschoolers and residents with multiple daily interactions and serves special education and typically developing preschoolers in a full-day setting. She also served as a co-chair of the educator task force that helped compile Kansas’s continuous learning guidance for how to approach distance learning during COVID-19. Summary: Rosproy shares her experience with engaging families in student learning and highlights the necessity of a partnership between teachers and caregivers for student success. She also talks about the importance of keeping students connected to one another during distance learning. As Tabatha looks towards the next year, she discusses her plans to use her new platform to advocate for early learning educators across the country. Children's Institute · National Teacher of the Year Tabatha Rosproy ← Previous Next → Featured Related Posts Lessons from ESS: Student Voice Shapes Stronger Classrooms Educators participating in Early School Success, gathered for a learning lab hosted by Children’s Institute. The learning lab focused on centering student voice in the classroom. read more We All May Look Different, We All Still Belong: Families Embracing Anti-Bias Values In this episode of The Early Link Podcast, host Rafael Otto chats with producer John Nimmo and parents Gabriel and Casey—contributors to the new film Families Embracing Anti-Bias Values. The film features local families considering questions including: ”What kind of world do we want to create with our children?“. read more « Older Entries Stay connected and sign up for our Newsletter! You can make an impact – Donate to make a difference! Find Us  1500 SW 1st Ave. Suite 750 Portland, OR 97201  503.219.9034  info@childinst.org Navigate Who We Are Our Work The Latest Staff Resources Board Resources Follow Follow Connect Donate Share Sign Up © 2025 Children's Institute | All Rights Reserved Privacy Policy | Terms & Conditions | Disclaimers | Accessibility | Site Map