Legend of Zelda game sells 10 million copies in three days Skip to content British Broadcasting Corporation Watch Live Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Home News Israel-Gaza War War in Ukraine US & Canada UK UK Politics England N. Ireland N. Ireland Politics Scotland Scotland Politics Wales Wales Politics Africa Asia China India Australia Europe Latin America Middle East In Pictures BBC InDepth BBC Verify Sport Business Executive Lounge Technology of Business Future of Business Innovation Technology Science & Health Artificial Intelligence AI v the Mind Culture Film & TV Music Art & Design Style Books Entertainment News Arts Arts in Motion Travel Destinations Africa Antarctica Asia Australia and Pacific Caribbean & Bermuda Central America Europe Middle East North America South America World’s Table Culture & Experiences Adventures The SpeciaList Earth Natural Wonders Weather & Science Climate Solutions Sustainable Business Green Living Audio Podcasts Radio Audio FAQs Video Live Live News Live Sport Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Weather Newsletters Legend of Zelda game sells 10 million copies in three days 17 May 2023 Share Save Tom Gerken Technology reporter Share Save Nintendo Nintendo has announced its latest game in the Zelda series has sold more than 10 million copies in just three days. The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom had become the fastest-selling Zelda game so far, it said. For comparison, The Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time - the highest-rated game on gaming-aggregator Metacritic - sold 7.4 million copies over its entire run. Tears of the Kingdom was released as a Nintendo Switch exclusive on Friday. And it has already sold more copies than any other Zelda game except Breath of the Wild, to which it is a sequel. Breath of the Wild, released on both Switch and Wii U in 2017, sold almost 30 million units, according to Statista . Allow Twitter content? This article contains content provided by Twitter . We ask for your permission before anything is loaded, as they may be using cookies and other technologies. You may want to read Twitter’s cookie policy and privacy policy before accepting. To view this content choose ‘accept and continue’ . Accept and continue Meanwhile, 2022 Game Awards prize-winner Elden Ring had sold an estimated 20.5 million units as of March 2023 . But the fantasy game, made by the developers of successful role-playing series Dark Souls, was released on many consoles, spanning the PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Xbox One, Xbox Series X and even PC. Tears of the Kingdom has also become 2023's biggest physical video-game launch in the UK, according to GamesIndustry.biz, selling 50% more physical copies than Hogwarts Legacy. Piers Harding-Rolls, of Ampere Analysis, told BBC News: "The huge opening sales of the latest Zelda places it amongst the biggest paid-for games ever released. "With estimated gross sales of well over $600m [£480m], this title is comparable to some of the best-ever launches but falls a little short of the very biggest. "For example, Grand Theft Auto V delivered over $1bn in sales in its three-day launch window. "Zelda has always been a beloved franchise for Nintendo fans but the success of the Switch console and the reinvention of the franchise into an open-world experience has transformed its appeal." Fans react to Zelda sequel after six-year wait Zelda: Why Nintendo's latest game is so important Elden Ring crowned game of the year at Game Awards Gaming Nintendo Related Gamers shocked as Elder Scrolls IV revealed and launched on same day 7 days ago Technology Minecraft: 'We've spent five years rebuilding London' 19 Apr 2025 London Bafta winner keeps award hidden from young daughter 19 Apr 2025 Beds, Herts & Bucks More 4 Apr 2025 Will £75 be the new normal for video games after Switch 2's Mario Kart? There's a lot of excitement about the new console - but also concern about the high price of its games. 4 Apr 2025 Technology 4 Apr 2025 Nintendo pulls Switch 2 pre-orders in US over Trump tariffs It unveiled the console on Wednesday just hours before the president announced a wave of global tariffs. 4 Apr 2025 Technology 3 Apr 2025 I played the £75 Mario Kart World on Switch 2 - was it worth it? The BBC gets hands-on with the hotly anticipated Nintendo Switch 2, launching in June. 3 Apr 2025 Technology 2 Apr 2025 Nintendo announces Switch 2 release date - and a new Mario Kart game More than a million people watched online as details of the long awaited successor to the hit console were announced. 2 Apr 2025 Technology 30 Mar 2025 A Minecraft Movie and Stranger Things star's new album: What's coming up this week SIX The Musical Live! also hits cinemas, and we're finally going to find out about the Switch 2. 30 Mar 2025 Culture British Broadcasting Corporation Home News Sport Business Innovation Culture Arts Travel Earth Audio Video Live Weather BBC Shop BritBox BBC in other languages Follow BBC on: Terms of Use About the BBC Privacy Policy Cookies Accessibility Help Contact the BBC Advertise with us Do not share or sell my info Contact technical support Copyright 2025 BBC. All rights reserved. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. Read about our approach to external linking.