HFPA Announces the Timetable for the 78th Golden Globe Awards - Golden Globes The Show Awards Database 2025 Nominations Winners/Nominees Carol Burnett Award Cecil B. DeMille Award History Golden Globes History About Award Rules and Entry Forms Media Info Publicist Info Voter Application Voter Biographies Membership Board of Directors Golden Globes Leadership Team Contact Us FAQs News Latest News Video Gallery Skip to content 82nd Annual Golden Globes® LIVE COVERAGE . Golden Globe Awards HFPA Announces the Timetable for the 78th Golden Globe Awards July 27, 2020 — HFPA The Hollywood Foreign Press Association (HFPA) has announced the awards timetable for the 78 th Annual Golden Globe ® Awards, hosted by Tina Fey and Amy Poehler: The February 28, 2021 ceremony will air live coast to coast 5-8 p.m. PT/8-11 p.m. ET on NBC from The Beverly Hilton in Beverly Hills, Calif. Nominations will be unveiled February 3, 2021; Eligibility Period for Motion Pictures Extended to February 28, 2021 The additional temporary adjustment to motion picture eligibility requirements is due to the impact of the ongoing pandemic. The eligibility period for English-language and foreign-language motion pictures has been extended to include motion pictures released through February 28, 2021. Television programs will continue to be subject to the December 31, 2020 awards eligibility year-end date, with television programs first released in 2021 being eligible for the 2022 Golden Globes. The deadline to submit both film and television entries for Golden Globe award consideration is November 30, 2020. Produced by dick clark productions in association with the HFPA, the Golden Globe Awards are viewed in more than 210 territories worldwide and the most-watched award show that combines the honorees of both film and television. Updated rules and the timetable can be found online here . Share this Prev Next Subscribe to Newsletter Email address Submit GG will store your name and email address and use them to send the Weekly Globe newsletter. Withdraw consent by clicking on the link in an issue. Read our Privacy Policy . Something went wrong! Please try again. Thank you for your submission! Tabulation proudly provided by KPMG LLP (US) The Show Awards Database 2025 Nominations Winners/Nominees Carol Burnett Award Cecil B. DeMille Award History Golden Globes History About Award Rules and Entry Forms Media Info Publicist Info Voter Application Voter Biographies Membership Board of Directors Golden Globes Leadership Team Contact Us FAQs News Latest News Video Gallery Golden Globe(s)®, Cecil B. Demille® and Golden Globes® Statuette design mark are the registered trademarks and service marks and the Golden Globe® statuette the copyrighted property, of Golden Globes, LLC. Copyright © Golden Globes, LLC. Hollywood Foreign Press Association® is a registered trademark of the Hollywood Foreign Press Association. All rights reserved. Accessibility Privacy Policy California Privacy Rights Adchoices Terms of Use Your Privacy Choices Dismiss Disclaimer Your Privacy Rights Golden Globes, LLC (“Golden Globes”) uses first and third-party technologies to enable PMC and third-parties to collect information about you and your interactions with our sites and services (including clicks, cursor movements and screen recordings). Learn more HERE . By continuing to use our sites or services, you agree to our Terms of Use (including the class action waiver and arbitration provisions) and Privacy Policy , which have recently changed. Search Search