National Contest - National History Day Shop Donate Find A Local Contest Contest Theme Get Started Contest Rules & Evaluation Find Your Local Contest (Affiliate) National Contest Teacher Resources Classroom Tools Courses Institutes Teaching Research Skills Advising NHD Students News & Events About NHD ® Why NHD Works People of NHD Find Your Local Affiliate 50 Years of NHD Sponsors and Supporters Get Involved Donate Volunteer to Judge Alumni Network National Contest National Contest The National Contest is the culmination of the annual competition cycle and a celebration of student scholarship. After spending months on project research and preparation, and successfully competing at local and affiliate contests, student scholars are invited to share their work at the National Contest. Each year nearly 3,000 students with their families and teachers gather at the University of Maryland, College Park for the week-long National Contest. They come from all fifty United States, the District of Columbia, Guam, American Samoa, the Northern Mariana Islands, Department of Defense Schools in the Atlantic, and international schools in China, Korea, and elsewhere (NHD International). The excitement can be felt across the campus. The 2025 National Contest June 8–12, 2025 , University of Maryland, College Park The NHD National Contest kicks off with a Welcome Ceremony to greet students and celebrate their hard work. Students then compete over several days in preliminary and final rounds. The Awards Ceremony on the final day opens with a Parade of Affiliates, where students from every affiliate march and show off their local pride, much like during the Olympics. Watch the recorded 2024 Awards Ceremony at nhd.org/awards-ceremony . Beyond the NHD National Contest, students can check out Washington, D.C. There are many options, including museums and other historical sites, where students can learn about new topics for the upcoming year’s theme. Registration Student and teacher registration for the National Contest is now open! Registration will close on Tuesday, May 13, 2025, at 11:59 p.m. ET . Continue to check this page for additional National Contest information (registration instructions, shipping to the contest, travel information, parking at UMD, and more). DownloAD reGISTRATION INSTRUCTIONS preferred hotels on-campus housing & meal Plans view contest week schedule Registration Fees Student Registration Fee: $165 Teacher Registration Fee: $65 Only teachers attending the National Contest must pay a $65 registration fee. Please note: Teachers are not required to attend the National Contest. This fee includes access to teacher resources, Monday night Teacher Social, Tuesday professional development workshops, Smithsonian Institute or White House Historical Association showcases, and other teacher activities. Registrants who do not complete payment before the 11:59 p.m. ET on Tuesday, May 13 deadline will face a $50 Late Fee. The late payment fee will increase to $60 on Thursday, May 15. If payment is not completed by Friday, May 16, the late fee will increase to $75. If you need to complete your payment after the May 13 deadline, you must contact the NHD National Office. Refund Policy Student/Chaperone Code of Conduct and Expectations Teachers Teachers attending the contest must register and pay the $65 teacher registration fee. If you are not planning to attend the contest, please still register, but you do not need to pay the teacher registration fee. Teachers who register and pay the fee will receive access to the latest NHD digital resources, entrance to the Monday night Teacher Social, and access to the Tuesday teacher workshops. In addition, they will receive access to contest week activities, including Day on the Hill, showcases at the Smithsonian Institute or White House Historical Association, and participation in any other teacher activities at the National Contest. National Contest FAQs What if I cannot attend the National Contest? Please contact your affiliate coordinator ASAP. You can find their contact information here: nhd.org/affiliates . There will not be any virtual judging components. All judging will take place in person. When will I be judged? If you are in the Junior Division (grades 6–8), you will be judged on Monday, June 9, 2025, between 10 a.m. and 3:00 p.m. If you are in the Senior Division (grades 9–12), you will be judged on Tuesday, June 10, 2025, between 10 a.m. and 3:00 p.m. You will receive your precise judging time and location when you check-in at the National Contest. What should I expect during judging? For the exhibit, website, and paper categories, the judges will interview you about your project during your judging time. You do not need to prepare any type of presentation – the judges will ask you questions about your project. For the documentary and performance categories, you will show your documentary or performance to the judges, and then the judges will interview you following your project – the judges will ask you questions about your project. You will receive your judging time/location when you check in at the National Contest. Do I need to attend the National Contest for the entire week? No, you only need to be present for your judging time. All other events are optional. Where can I find information about accessibility on the University of Maryland, College Park campus? Please visit this page of the UMD website: https://accessibility.umd .edu/visitors-to-campus Do I need a chaperone? Yes, all students need a chaperone throughout the contest week. You will list the chaperone in your student account when you register. Chaperones are responsible for the behavior of the students in their charge. If you are staying in the dorms, you will need to list a chaperone who will be with you in the dorms when you register for housing. Chaperones do not need to register for the National Contest separately. What safety measures are in place at the University of Maryland, College Park? Please review this document. Travel and Shipping to the University of Maryland, College Park For additional travel and campus information, visit the UMD Conference and Visitor services website . Air Travel Tip: When searching for a flight online, you can enter WAS for the airport code to search all three airports simultaneously. Baltimore/Washington International Thurgood Marshall Airport — BWI BWI typically has the least expensive flight options. It is about a 30-minute drive (28.4 miles) from the University of Maryland, College Park. Public Transportation from BWI to College Park, MD: There is no longer a direct bus option between BWI and College Park. There is a MARC and Amtrak Station located at BWI. As there are frequent changes, construction, etc., please refer to their websites or Google Maps for the latest travel information. Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport — DCA Reagan is the closest airport option. It is about a 30-minute drive (17.8 miles) from the University of Maryland, College Park. Public Transportation from DCA to College Park, MD: The Washington Metro (subway) stops at DCA. Take the Blue Line toward Largo. You can transfer to the Green Line at L’Enfant Plaza. Take the Green Line toward Greenbelt and exit at College Park-UMD. The campus is located 1.5 miles from the Metrorail station. The website for Washington’s Metrorail system has system maps and schedules. As there are frequent changes, construction, etc., please refer to their website or Google Maps for the latest travel information. SmarTrip is the ticketing system for Metro. You can get a plastic SmarTrip card at any station or download the app and preload a digital SmarTrip card. You can find the details on both options here . Dulles International Airport — IAD Dulles is the furthest airport option. It is about a 1-hour drive (37.4 miles) from the University of Maryland, College Park. Public Transportation from IAD to College Park, MD: The Washington Metro (subway) stops at IAD. Board the Silver Line toward Largo Town Center. Then transfer to the Green Line at L’Enfant Plaza. Take the Green Line toward Greenbelt. Exit at College Park-UMD. The campus is located 1.5 miles from the Metrorail station. The website for Washington’s Metrorail system has system maps and schedules. As there are frequent changes, construction, etc., please refer to their website or Google Maps for the latest travel information. SmarTrip is the ticketing system for Metro. You can get a plastic SmarTrip card at any station or download the app and preload a digital SmarTrip card. You can find the details on both options here . Train Travel Amtrak Amtrak serves the D.C. area. Visit Amtrak’s website . The closest station to the University is New Carrollton, where you will need to take a taxi or ride the Metro to the campus. At the New Carrollton Station, board the Metro and ride the Orange Line toward Vienna. Transfer to the Green Line at L’Enfant Plaza. Take the Green Line toward Greenbelt. Exit the Metro at College Park-UMD. The campus is located 1.5 miles from the Metrorail station. Alternatively, you may arrive at Union Station in downtown Washington, D.C., but a taxi would cost more from there. You could take the Metro (see below) from Union Station to College Park-UMD. Metro/Metrorail Washington’s Metrorail system website has maps and schedules. As there are frequent changes, construction, etc., please refer to their website or Google Maps for the latest travel information. SmarTrip is the ticketing system for Metro. You can get a plastic SmarTrip card at any station or download the app and preload a digital SmarTrip card. You can find the details on both options here . First time using Metro? Check out this helpful article . Driving All campus locations have a physical address that can conveniently guide you via any GPS-enabled device. We recommend you use the address for the Adele H. Stamp Student Union: 3972 Campus Drive, College Park, MD 20742. Parking If you purchase housing packages, parking is included in the rate, and there will be parking spots near the dorms. All other parking will be much more limited this year, as the University of Maryland lost many spaces/lots due to the Metro Purple Line construction. To give everyone an equal opportunity to purchase on-campus parking permits, we will put the link and information on purchasing parking on our website (nhd.org/national-contest) following registration closing. Check back on this page for further details. Pending availability, representatives from the Department of Transportation Services will be available at registration during the following hours to assist with permit purchase and answer questions: Saturday, 2:00 pm–8:00 pm, and Sunday, 9:00 am–8:00 pm. Beginning Monday, guests should pre-purchase permits online or park in designated visitor parking lots and pay the hourly/daily fee. Permits may be purchased at the Department of Transportation’s office in Regents Drive Garage during business hours, 8:15 am–4:00 pm. In College Park, there are also off-campus parking options. Please review this document for additional information, locations, and rates. Shuttles There are free National History Day campus shuttles to take you to various locations around the University of Maryland, College Park campus, College Park, and the College Park Metro Station. We will post the shuttle schedule here, once finalized. Shipping Please review this document for instructions on shipping to the University of Maryland, College Park. Map Please review this document for important locations for NHD students and teachers across the University of Maryland, College Park campus. You can view a map of the entire campus here . Contact Us For assistance regarding the NHD National Contest, please review the following contact information. For general registration and contest questions, please email registration@nhd.org or call the National History Day office at 301-314-9739. For technical support issues, please email IT@nhd.org . For questions regarding on-campus housing and meals, please email NHDhousing@umd.edu or call 301-314-6637. For questions regarding payment, please email lorena@nhd.org . For press and media inquires, please email communications@nhd.org . Contest Week Activities Check out these great contest week activities from our local College Park, Maryland, area partners. All activities are free and open to NHD students, teachers, and families/friends. Students, bring your NHD lanyards with you so they know you are part of NHD. Ice Cream Social at College Park Aviation Museum Date/Time: Sunday, June 8, 11 a.m.-3 p.m. Location: College Park Aviation Museum , 1985 Corporal Frank Scott Dr, College Park, MD 20740 I scream, you scream, we all scream for…history and ice cream! Cool off at the museum with free scoops from the University of Maryland Dairy and join educators as history and science come to life with activities and hands-on exploration in the gallery. The event is sponsored by the University of Maryland Center for Community Engagement. All ages welcome; FREE to National History Day participants & families. Ice cream while supplies last. Tour of the Niels Bohr Library & Archives of the American Institute of Physics Date/Time: Tuesday, June 10th at 1:00 p.m. Location: Niels Bohr Library & Archives at the American Institute of Physics , Anacostia Building, 1 Physics Ellipse, College Park, MD 20740 Come see behind the scenes at a real working library and archives! You will have the opportunity to tour spaces that are usually closed to visitors, such as the rare books and archives vault, and experience up close a selection of materials from the Niels Bohr Library & Archives unique collections. Librarians and archivists will be available to answer questions and tell stories. Tour is free but space is limited; register below. The Niels Bohr Library & Archives preserves the history of physics, astronomy, geophysics and allied fields by documenting, collecting, and making their collections accessible to the public. Library collections include an outstanding collection of books and serials, over 30,000 photographs and other images; over 1,500 oral histories with many of the outstanding figures in the fields that we cover; and archival records. We are accessible by car and have a dedicated parking lot with paid visitor parking. We are also a mile’s walk from the College Park metro station, and we are the “River Road & River Tech Court” stop on the free University of Maryland shuttle, which is the 104 Shuttle from bay D. Register today Tour of Homegrown: An Introduction to the Environmental Justice Movement Exhibition in Hornbake Library Date/Time: Tours will be offered at 10:30 a.m., 12:30 p.m., and 2:30 p.m. on Monday, June 9 and Tuesday, June 10. Location: Hornbake Library , 4130 Campus Dr, College Park, MD 20740 (a short walk from Stamp Student Union) Come tour Homegrown: An Introduction to the Environmental Justice Movemen t, an exhibition that showcases archival materials stewarded by the University of Maryland Libraries Special Collections and University Archives. Questions? Contact Jeannette Schollaert at jes5@umd.edu. Contest Awards The National Contest provides several types of awards for outstanding student entries. To find out about special prizes or awards at affiliate and local contests, contact your affiliate coordinator . The 2025 National Contest Awards Ceremony will be held on Thursday, June 12. The 2025 ceremony live stream will be available at https://nhd.org/en/awards-ceremony/ . Contest Category Awards The top three entries in each contest category receive awards. Additionally, students whose entries win 1st place in each category receive the designation of National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH) Scholars. download full list of Recent National Contest Winners Download press release template Special Prizes View the list of current special prizes available to participants of the National Contest. View special prizes Outstanding Affiliate Awards Two entries from each NHD Affiliate (one in the Junior Division and one in the Senior Division) have the opportunity to receive Outstanding Affiliate Awards. Teacher of the Year Award Quality teachers are critical to student success. National History Day recognizes their outstanding work and dedication to their students, awarding a teacher in each division with the Teacher of the Year Awards. PATRICIA BEHRING TEACHER OF THE YEAR AWARD WINNERS 2024 Junior Division: Matthew Elms, Singapore American School, Singapore Senior Division: Aditi Doshi, Van Nuys High School, Van Nuys, California PATRICIA BEHRING TEACHER OF THE YEAR AWARD WINNERS 2023 Junior Division: Terry Kaldhusdal, Kettle Moraine Middle School, Dousman, Wisconsin Senior Division:  Sarah Razee, Kamehameha Schools Kapālama, Honolulu, Hawaiʻi Patricia Behring Teacher of the Year Award Winners 2022 Junior Division: Lizandaa Alburg, The Paterson Academy for the Gifted and Talented, School 28, Paterson, New Jersey Senior Division: Amy Page, Moriarty High School, Moriarty, New Mexico Patricia Behring Teacher of the Year Award Winners 2021 Junior Division: Suzanne Zmijewski Lim, Winthrop L. Chenery Middle School, Belmont, Massachusetts Senior Division: Jeni Boulanger, Oak Hills High School, Oak Hills, California Judging Are you interested in judging for the NHD National Contest? The 2025 National Contest will be held in person at the University of Maryland, College Park. Judge registration is now open. learn more about judging National History Day ® Influencing the future through discovery of the past Contact Job Openings Switch Language English Español 简体中文 العربية Stay Informed Read our newsletter for the latest resources, events, and training. Subscribe Follow us © 2025 National History Day ® 4511 KNOX ROAD, SUITE 205, COLLEGE PARK, MD 20740 | Privacy Policy | Website design by openbox9 We use cookies to analyze how visitors use our website so we can provide the best possible experience. By clicking “Accept All Cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device. For more information, please view our Privacy Policy. Accept all cookies Accept only necessary cookies modal-check Copy - Support National History Day Demo Description National History Day was recently notified that our grants from the National Endowment for the Humanities were cancelled. This means a loss of more than $336,000 over this year and next. Can you give to help power NHD's important programming for the next two years and beyond? Donate now. Dismiss ad Dismiss ad This will close in 0 seconds