The Golden Globes: Nominees revealed on December 9, 2019; film and TV awards ceremony on January 5, 2020 - CBS News Latest U.S. Pope Francis Coverage World Politics Entertainment HealthWatch MoneyWatch Crime Space Sports Brand Studio Local News Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas Live CBS News 24/7 Baltimore Bay Area Boston Chicago Colorado Detroit Los Angeles Miami Minnesota New York Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento Texas 48 Hours 60 Minutes Shows 48 Hours 60 Minutes America Decides CBS Evening News CBS Mornings CBS Morning News CBS Reports CBS Saturday Morning The Daily Report The Dish Eye on America Face the Nation Here Comes the Sun Sunday Morning The Takeout The Uplift CBS News Investigates CBS News Confirmed CBS Village Podcasts Newsletters Download Our App CBS News Team Executive Team Brand Studio Paramount+ Join Our Talent Community RSS Feeds Davos Interviews A Moment With... Innovators & Disruptors Economy 4.0 U.S. Pope Francis Coverage World Politics HealthWatch MoneyWatch Entertainment Crime Sports Watch CBS News Entertainment Golden Globes 2020: Here are the nominees — and snubs By Caitlin  O'Kane Caitlin  O'Kane Senior Manager, Social Media Production and Content Caitlin O'Kane is a New York City journalist who works on the CBS News social media team as a senior manager of content and production. She writes about a variety of topics and produces "The Uplift," CBS News' streaming show that focuses on good news. Read Full Bio Caitlin  O'Kane Updated on:  December 10, 2019 / 7:52 AM EST / CBS News 2020 Golden Globe nominations announced Netflix leads with most Golden Globe nominations 02:13 The 2020 Gold Globe nominations were announced early Monday morning, and some famous faces helped reveal the nominees in 25 categories spanning TV and film . Tim Allen, Dakota Fanning and Susan Kelechi Watson had the honor of announcing the nominees alongside Hollywood Foreign Press Association president Lorenzo Soria. Netflix received 17 nominations for its films and 34 overall, the most of any competitor this year. The winners will be announced on stage January 5 at the Golden Globe Awards ceremony at the Beverly Hilton in Los Angeles. The below nominees have a chance to receive one of those coveted trophies. MOVIES Best Motion Picture - Drama "1917" "The Irishman" "Joker" "Marriage Story" "The Two Popes" Three of the five films in this category are produced by Netflix: "The Irishman," "Marriage Story," and "The Two Popes." Best Performance by an Actress in a Motion Picture - Drama Cynthia Erivo, "Harriet" Scarlett Johansson, "Marriage Story" Saoirse Ronan, "Little Women" Charlize Theron, "Bombshell" Renée Zellweger, "Judy" Saoirse Ronan is the only actress nominated for "Little Women," whose ensemble cast also includes Laura Dern, Emma Watson, Timothée Chalamet and Meryl Streep in the classic story about four sisters. Best Performance by an Actor in a Motion Picture - Drama Christian Bale, "Ford V Ferrari" Antonio Banderas, "Pain And Glory" Adam Driver, "Marriage Story" Joaquin Phoenix, "Joker" Jonathan Pryce, "The Two Popes" Best Motion Picture - Musical Or Comedy "Dolemite Is My Name" "Jojo Rabbit" "Knives Out" "Once Upon A Time... In Hollywood" "Rocketman" Best Performance by an Actress in a Motion Picture - Musical Or Comedy Ana De Armas, "Knives Out" Awkwafina, "The Farewell" Cate Blanchett, "Where'd You Go, Bernadette" Beanie Feldstein, "Booksmart" Emma Thompson, "Late Night" Best Performance by an Actor in a Motion Picture - Musical Or Comedy Daniel Craig, "Knives Out" Roman Griffin Davis, "Jojo Rabbit" Leonardo Dicaprio, "Once Upon A Time... In Hollywood" Taron Egerton, "Rocketman" Eddie Murphy, "Dolemite Is My Name" Best Motion Picture - Animated "Frozen 2" "How To Train Your Dragon: The Hidden World" "The Lion King" "Missing Link" "Toy Story 4" Disney earned three nominations in this category with "Frozen 2," "The Lion King," and "Toy Story 4." The best movies of 2019, ranked 48 photos Best Motion Picture - Foreign Language "The Farewell" - United States "Les Misérables" - France "Pain And Glory" - Spain "Parasite" - South Korea "Portrait Of A Lady On Fire" - France Best Performance by an Actress in a Supporting Role in any Motion Picture Kathy Bates, "Richard Jewell" Annette Bening, "The Report" Laura Dern, "Marriage Story" Jennifer Lopez, "Hustlers" Margot Robbie, "Bombshell" The last time Jennifer Lopez received a Golden Globe nomination was in 1998 for playing the title character in "Selena." Best Performance by an Actor in a Supporting Role in any Motion Picture Tom Hanks, "A Beautiful Day In The Neighborhood" Anthony Hopkins, "The Two Popes" Al Pacino, "The Irishman" Joe Pesci, "The Irishman" Brad Pitt, "Once Upon A Time... In Hollywood" Many fans on Twitter were shocked that Tom Hanks got a "supporting" nomination for his portrayal of Mr. Rogers in a film about Fred Rogers and a journalist who gets to know him. Best Director - Motion Picture Best Director - Motion Picture Bong Joon Ho, "Parasite" Sam Mendes, "1917" Todd Phillips, "Joker" Martin Scorsese, "The Irishman" Quentin Tarantino, "Once Upon A Time... In Hollywood" "The Irishman" is responsible for five of Netflix's 17 film nominations this year. The streaming platform is the most-nominated network this year. Best Screenplay - Motion Picture Noah Baumbach, "Marriage Story" Bong Joon Ho, Han Jin Won, "Parasite" Anthony McCarten, "The Two Popes" Quentin Tarantino, "Once Upon A Time... In Hollywood" Steven Zaillian, "The Irishman" "Marriage Story" is the most-nominated film at the Golden Globes this year; it is up for six awards. Best Original Score - Motion Picture Alexandre Desplat, "Little Women" Hildur Guönadóttir, "Joker" Randy Newman, "Marriage Story" Thomas Newman, "1917" Daniel Pemberton, "Motherless Brooklyn" Best Original Song - Motion Picture "Beautiful Ghosts" - Cats "I'm Gonna Love Me Again" - Rocketman "Into The Unknown" - Frozen "Spirit" - The Lion King "Stand Up" - Harriet Some superstar recording artists are nominated in this category: Taylor Swift, alongside Andrew Lloyd Webber, for "Beautiful Ghosts," Elton John for  "I'm Gonna Love Me Again," and Beyoncé, alongside Timothy McKenzie and Ilya Salmanzadeh, for "Spirit." TELEVISION Best Television Series - Drama "Big Little Lies" "The Crown" "Killing Eve" "The Morning Show" "Succession" HBO received two nominations in this category with "Big Little Lies" and "Succession," but many fans felt the network's final season of "Game of Thrones" was snubbed. Newly-minted Apple TV+ earned its first three Golden Globe nominations this year, all by way of "The Morning Show." Best Performance by an Actress in a Television Series - Drama Jennifer Aniston, "The Morning Show" Olivia Colman, "The Crown" Jodie Comer, "Killing Eve" Nicole Kidman, "Big Little Lies" Reese Witherspoon, "The Morning Show" Jennifer Aniston and Reese Witherspoon play "frenemies" in Apple's new drama, "The Morning Show" — and now, the costars are up for the same award. Best Performance by an Actor in a Television Series - Drama Brian Cox, "Succession" Kit Harington, "Game Of Thrones" Rami Malek, "Mr. Robot" Tobias Menzies, "The Crown" Billy Porter, "Pose" Kit Harington's best actor nomination is the only Golden Globe nod "Game of Thrones" received. Best Television Series - Musical Or Comedy "Barry" "Fleabag" "The Kominsky Method" "The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel" "The Politician" Almost all the nominees in this category come from streaming platforms rather than traditional television networks. "Fleabag" and "The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel" are on Amazon, "The Kominsky Method" and "The Politician" are on Netflix, and "Barry" is on HBO — which started as a cable channel and now has its own streaming service. Best Performance by an Actress in a Television Series - Musical Or Comedy Christina Applegate, "Dead To Me" Rachel Brosnahan, "The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel" Kirsten Dunst, "On Becoming A God In Central Florida" Natasha Lyonne, "Russian Doll" Phoebe Waller-Bridge, "Fleabag" Best Performance by an Actor in a Television Series - Musical Or Comedy Michael Douglas, "The Kominsky Method" Bill Hader, "Barry" Ben Platt, "The Politician" Paul Rudd, "Living With Yourself" Ramy Youssef, "Ramy" Best Television Limited Series Or Motion Picture Made For Television "Catch-22" "Chernobyl" "Fosse/Verdon" "The Loudest Voice" "Unbelievable" Best Performance by an Actress in a Limited Series or a Motion Picture Made for Television Kaitlyn Dever, "Unbelievable" Joey King, "The Act" Helen Mirren, "Catherine The Great" Merritt Wever, "Unbelievable" Michelle Williams, "Fosse/Verdon" Best Performance by an Actor in a Limited Series or a Motion Picture Made for Television Christopher Abbott, "Catch-22" Sacha Baron Cohen, "The Spy" Russell Crowe, "The Loudest Voice" Jared Harris, "Chernobyl" Sam Rockwell, "Fosse/Verdon" Best Performance by an Actress in a Supporting Role in a Series, Limited Series or Motion Picture Made for Television Patricia Arquette, "The Act" Helena Bonham Carter, "The Crown" Toni Collette, "Unbelievable" Meryl Streep, "Big Little Lies" Emily Watson, "Chernobyl" Meryl Streep topped the record she personally set by nabbing her 34th Golden Globe nomination. Best Performance by an Actor in a Supporting Role in a Series, Limited Series or Motion Picture Made for Television Alan Arkin, "The Kominsky Method" Kieran Culkin, "Succession" Andrew Scott, "Fleabag" Stellan Skarsgård, "Chernobyl" Henry Winkler, "Barry" Honorary Awards In addition to the above categories, the Golden Globes will also honor Ellen DeGeneres with the Carol Burnett Award and Tom Hanks with the Cecil B. deMille Award. Correction: This article has been updated to reflect that Netflix received 34 nominations in all, including 17 for its films. Golden Globe Awards More Comedian Nikki Glaser to return as host of 83rd Golden Globe awards Who won Golden Globes for 2025? See the full winners list here Who hosted the 82nd Annual Golden Globes? All about Nikki Glaser. Selena Gomez earns Golden Globe nominations for two different roles See the full list of Golden Globe nominations for 2025 More Caitlin  O'Kane Caitlin O'Kane is a New York City journalist who works on the CBS News social media team as a senior manager of content and production. She writes about a variety of topics and produces "The Uplift," CBS News' streaming show that focuses on good news. © 2019 CBS Interactive Inc. All Rights Reserved. More from CBS News Senate Democrats seeking to block confirmation of controversial prosecutor Smokey Robinson reflects on music career, new album and his legacy USC recruit Alijah Arenas hospitalized after Cybertruck crash in Los Angeles Oprah Winfrey selects Tina Knowles' "Matriarch" for latest book club pick Featured Who Will Be the Next Pope? What Happens Next After Pope Francis' Death 2025 NFL Draft Live Blog NBA Playoffs Live Blog Follow Us On YouTube Facebook Instagram X Privacy Privacy Policy California Notice Your Privacy Choices Terms of Use More from CBS News Newsletters Podcasts Download Our App Brand Studio Sitemap Company About Paramount Advertise With Paramount Join Our Talent Community Help Feedback Copyright ©2025 CBS Interactive Inc. All rights reserved. View CBS News In CBS News App Open Chrome Safari Continue Be the first to know Get browser notifications for breaking news, live events, and exclusive reporting. Not Now Turn On