Google confirms the Pixel 5a is predictably replacing the Pixel 5, 4a 5G as both devices are discontinued | Android Central Skip to main content Open menu Close menu Android Central Search Search Android Central Sign in View Profile Sign out US Edition US UK Australia Canada India Phones Reviews Chromebooks Wearables Accessories Apps & Software More News Tablets VR & Gaming Streaming & TV Deals Forums About Us Trending Google I/O 2025 Motorola Razr Plus 2025: Google Pixel 9a Samsung Galaxy S25 Android 16 Android XR Google Pixel 10 Phones Google Pixel Google confirms the Pixel 5a is predictably replacing the Pixel 5, 4a 5G as both devices are discontinued News By Andrew Myrick published 20 August 2021 When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works . Pixel 5 vs Pixel 4a 5G (Image credit: Hayato Huseman / Android Central) What you need to know Google has discontinued both the Pixel 5 and Pixel 4a 5G This comes a few days after the Pixel 5a was announced. The Pixel 4a will remain available for the time being. In a move that was expected, Google has confirmed that the Pixel 5 and Pixel 4a 5G have been discontinued. The Google Pixel 5a was announced earlier this week and will replace both handsets in the company's current lineup of devices. As an alternative for those who want one of the best cheap Android phones , the standard Pixel 4a will remain available from Google and other retailers. The news was first reported by Digital Trends . In a statement provided to Android Central , a Google spokesperson offered the following: With our current forecasts, we expect Google Store in the U.S. to sell out of Pixel 4a (5G) and Pixel 5 in the coming weeks following the launch of Pixel 5a (5G). The Pixel 5a (5G) is a great option for customers and delivers valuable hardware upgrades compared to the Pixel 4a (5G), all at a lower price point. The writing has been on the wall ever since stocking levels seemed to fluctuate rather frustratingly leading up to the Pixel 5a announcement. Now, Google has confirmed what we all expected, and if you want a "high end" Pixel, you'll have to continue holding off until the Pixel 6 and Pixel 6 Pro debut later this year. You may like Here's how Google is shaking up the A-series lineup following Pixel 9a launch Pixel 9a arrives with a fresh new look, packs tons of AI features, and a massive battery life When you put the Pixel 5a next to both the Pixel 4a 5G and Pixel 5, it makes complete sense as to why Google made this decision. Essentially, the 5a brings in all of the best features from both devices and provides a fantastic value in the mid-range market with arguably the best camera system on a sub-$500 device. With the Pixel 5a, you'll find some pretty incredible battery life paired with the best of stock Android and the same camera system from the Pixel 5. The design stays true to the Pixel A-series of devices, with a muted and matte finish along with a hole-punch selfie camera. There's also a rear-mounted fingerprint scanner which continues to be an excellent decision, instead of opting for an under-display sensor found in some of the best Android phones . The latest Pixel Google Pixel 5a Check Amazon $449 at Google An incredible camera system at this price The Pixel 5a blends the best of the Pixel 5 and Pixel 4a 5G to bring an affordable mid-range option to the market. From it's stellar battery life to the same camera system that we know and love, it doesn't get much better than this one. Have you listened to this week's Android Central Podcast? Every week, the Android Central Podcast brings you the latest tech news, analysis and hot takes, with familiar co-hosts and special guests. Be an expert in 5 minutes Get the latest news from Android Central, your trusted companion in the world of Android Contact me with news and offers from other Future brands Receive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsors By submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over. Subscribe in Pocket Casts: Audio Subscribe in Spotify: Audio Subscribe in iTunes: Audio Andrew Myrick Social Links Navigation Senior Editor — Smartphones (North America), Chromebooks & Tablets Andrew Myrick is a Senior Editor at Android Central. He enjoys everything to do with technology, including tablets, smartphones, and everything in between. Perhaps his favorite past-time is collecting different headphones, even if they all end up in the same drawer. Read more Here's how Google is shaking up the A-series lineup following Pixel 9a launch Pixel 9a arrives with a fresh new look, packs tons of AI features, and a massive battery life Google Pixel 9a: Price, specs, and everything you need to know Google Pixel 8a: Everything you need to know Google Pixel 9a finally gets a launch date after 'component quality issue' Google does the right thing by delaying Pixel 9a pre-orders Latest in Google Pixel Best Buy really wants to give you $100 to buy the Google Pixel 9a — I'm not joking Alphabet's Q1 earnings exceeded expectations with a 12% increase in revenue Google initiates an Extended Repair Program for the Pixel 7a's battery issue Google I/O 2025 prepares new Material 3 'Expressive' design, XR, and much more First nine things to do with the Google Pixel 9a Google could be moving Pixel manufacturing to India to avoid high tariffs Latest in News This is your last chance to buy a lifetime Plex Pass before prices double Google officially killed Driving Mode after stripping most of its features in 2024 Google Meet rolls out new tile redesign, sampling colors for a classy look Google is dropping support for the first two generations of Nest Learning Thermostat Clicks Keyboard on the Moto Razr Ultra 2025 is a throwback to simpler times Latest CMF Phone 2 Pro teaser might've hinted at a camera lens attachment LATEST ARTICLES 1 Synology DiskStation DS925+ vs. DiskStation DS923+: Is it even an upgrade? 2 I used Boston Marathon runners' official smartwatch stats to help with my training 3 This is your last chance to buy a lifetime Plex Pass before prices double 4 The new Motorola Razr 2025 series takes a page out of Samsung's book, and it's better for it 5 Yahoo buying Chrome isn't as crazy as it sounds Android Central is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site . Terms and conditions Contact Future's experts Privacy policy Cookies policy Accessibility statement Careers Licensing External links disclosure About us Newsletter Advertise with us Licensing and reprints iMore Windows Central © Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street, New York, NY 10036. Close Please login or signup to comment Please wait... Login Sign Up