2021 NBA Draft results: Round 1 and 2 picks, grades, analysis, trades including Cade Cunningham to Pistons - The Athletic NFL NBA MLB NHL NCAAF NCAAM NCAAW Tennis Premier League Golf WNBA Peak Global Sports MLS NWSL Fantasy Baseball Fantasy Football Soccer Formula 1 Olympics Sports Business Opinion Betting Memorabilia and Collectibles College Sports FIFA Club World Cup Culture Motorsports NASCAR Women's Hockey MMA Boxing The Pulse Newsletter Cities Maple Leafs vs. Senators NBA Playoff Bracket Connections: Sports Edition Newsletters 2021 NBA Draft results: Round 1 and 2 picks, grades, analysis, trades including Cade Cunningham to Pistons Sam Vecenie and John Hollinger July 30, 2021 The 2021 NBA Draft is done. NBA Draft analyst Sam Vecenie and The Athletic’s front office insider John Hollinger were here for instant analysis as each pick was made — with grades, projections, trade analysis and more. 1. Detroit Pistons Cade Cunningham | 6-foot-8, lead ballhandler | 19 years old, freshman | Oklahoma State Vecenie’s Ranking: 1 Cunningham is one of the more complete prospects to come through the draft process in a while. There aren’t many holes to his game. He’s a three-level scorer now because of his shooting improvement. He hits 40 percent from 3 and finishes at the rim. Cunningham can make high-level passing reads and plays unselfishly. He defends at a high level. He’s a high-character player. He’s clutch and loves the biggest moments, with a proven track record of success during them. He has elite size for the role he’ll play. Advertisement Hollinger’s team fit: Well, duh. The Pistons need talent everywhere, and Cunningham was the consensus choice for the top talent available in this draft. The Pistons will give him the ball and hope he can be their primary ballhandler. That said, I’d love to see them nab some ballhandling help for Cunningham with the cap room created in today’s Mason Plumlee trade, because ultimately I see Cunningham as more a high-efficiency shooter and scorer than an elite creator. Hollinger would have picked … Cunningham. 2. Houston Rockets Jalen Green | 6-6 guard | 19 years old | G League Ignite Vecenie’s Ranking: 4 Green is about as projectable a 20-point-per-game scoring guard as has entered the draft in a while. The combination of his skill level, handle and elite-level athleticism is going to allow him to get buckets at an exceedingly high level. How he’s able to round out the rest of his skills in terms of his passing and defense will be the difference between him making just one or two All-Star teams as a scoring guard or becoming a real potential All-NBA player. Hollinger’s team fit: The Rockets seem fond of this type of player, and certainly shooting for upside is the right call for a team in Houston’s position. That said, Green wasn’t massively productive in the G League a year ago and is facing a big step up in competition. He projects as an athletic scorer in the Zach LaVine mold, but he may take a while to get near his ceiling. I like Green but had him further down my board. Hollinger would have picked… Evan Mobley 3. Cleveland Cavaliers Evan Mobley | 7-0 center | 20 years old, freshman | USC Vecenie’s Ranking: 3 Mobley has all the tools to be an All-NBA big man. He has potential to be one of the few guys in the league who can be real shot creators and offensive initiators along with providing All-Defense-level skill. He’s one of the most skilled big-man prospects to enter the league in a long time. Ultimately, his future as an All-Star will be determined by two factors. First, where does Mobley settle in terms of strength? Is he able to put on 20 or so pounds, or at least add a significant amount of core strength so that he doesn’t regularly get blown off his spot? Second, does he develop as a shooter? Advertisement Hollinger’s team fit: Cleveland has too many bigs, but if Mobley hits he’s going to be massively better than all of them. He is by far the most talented player left on the board and, as with LaMelo Ball in Charlotte a year ago, the Cavs have to be feeling a bit lucky that he landed here. Mobley’s fit next to Jarrett Allen could be iffy in their first year, but as he adds shooting range his other skills — ballhandling, passing, and switchability on defense — it should allow the two to pair comfortably going forward. Hollinger would have picked… Mobley 4. Toronto Raptors Scottie Barnes | 6-9 forward | 19 years old, freshman | Florida State Vecenie’s Ranking: 6 If Barnes makes shots, he’s going to be something resembling an All-Star because of his length, defensive upside and passing ability. There are so few players in the NBA who are this big, this long and this fluid who also consistently play as hard as Barnes does with such an infectious energy. His feel for the game is also very high and gives him a much higher floor than what the typical non-shooter has. But the jumper is a long way away. Hollinger’s team fit: I liked Jalen Suggs’ fit in Toronto and I understand why it might have made sense to go that way, but I had Barnes third on my board and think he’s an amazing fit in Toronto. Barnes’s biggest weakness is his shooting, and the Raptors have shown they can turn non-shooters into at least passable perimeter options, having already done so with OG Anunoby and Pascal Siakam. I also wonder a bit if this portends a trade of Siakam, who has a large contract but could command enough in a trade to help Toronto’s quasi-rebuild and open the door for more minutes for Barnes. Hollinger would have picked … Barnes 5. Orlando Magic Jalen Suggs | 6-5 guard | 20 years old, freshman | Gonzaga Vecenie’s Ranking: 2 Few things are more valuable in the NBA than a star lead creator. Suggs has potential to be just that given his athleticism, power, vision and basketball IQ. It’s not easy to find players with this blend of tools who also have this much of a productive track record. He has an undeniable history of winning games, from high school championships to his run with Gonzaga. And that mentality showcases itself in his game, too, with Suggs typically stepping up in a big way in the biggest moments. Advertisement Hollinger’s team fit: Suggs is an uncomfortable fit in a crowded Orlando backcourt, as the Magic already invested in an extension for Markelle Fultz and drafted Cole Anthony in the first round last year, however he was also the consensus best player available. But a team in Orlando’s position, a full teardown, has to go for talent first and worry about the ideal fit later; they can always make deals with Fultz or Anthony if the fit isn’t working. I also really liked Turkish center Alperen Sengun here, but Orlando may have figured they could get him with their upcoming pick at No. 8. Hollinger would have picked… Alperen Sengun 6. Oklahoma City Thunder Josh Giddey | 6-8 wing | 18 years old | Adelaide Vecenie’s Ranking: 12 Giddey is one of the elite basketball IQ players in this class, a genius 6-foot-8, 18-year-old point guard this past year in Australia who was tremendous as a live dribble passer and playmaker. But teams are of a few different minds regarding Giddey. Some see him as a long-term point guard, and others see him more as a secondary ballhandler. I tend to fall into the latter category, and for him to reach his ceiling in that role he’ll need to improve his jumper and his on-ball defense. Hollinger’s team fit: Oklahoma City is in a position where it needs to shoot on upside rather than floor, which is why a flier always made a bit more sense than, say, the likely reliable floor but lower ceiling of a Franz Wagner or Corey Kispert. I was always suspicious of the James Bouknight talk here before the draft – it just isn’t OKC’s style — and going for the long-term upside of Giddey is more sensible in their position. He needs to learn how to shoot and improve his body, but he can be a big, ballhanding wing – the thing every NBA team craves – and he’ll get plenty of reps on a rebuilding Thunder team. Hollinger would have picked… Sengun or Giddey NBA commissioner Adam Silver and Jonathan Kuminga shake hands after Kuminga was drafted by the Golden State Warriors. (Arturo Holmes/Getty Images) 7. Golden State Warriors Jonathan Kuminga | 6-7 wing/forward | 18 years old | G League Ignite Vecenie’s Ranking: 5 Kuminga’s upside is that of an All-Star if he becomes the kind of pull-up shot maker that his tools portend potential to be. But if the pull-up game doesn’t come together, there is some significant downside here to where he’s more of a rotational wing than even potentially a starter. As referenced above, he’s not quite Jaylen Brown athletically; more of a power player than an explosive player. There’s some Jeff Green here if the shot doesn’t totally translate. The good news is that Kuminga’s work ethic is said to be strong, so he’ll bring most of his tools together into a high-level package. Advertisement Hollinger’s team fit: What do you do with a pick that you never wanted to make in the first place? Golden State was hoping to trade his pick for star power, but with nothing alluring on the table went for the long-term upside (and, probably more importantly, long-term trade value) of Kuminga. He’s a raw player who is unlikely to help the Warriors much this year, and I thought it made more sense for them to go for the reliable floor and near-certain plug-and-play role player capabilities of forward Franz Wagner. Hollinger would have picked… Wagner 8. Orlando Magic Franz Wagner | 6-9 forward | 19 years old, sophomore | Michigan Vecenie’s Ranking: 14 Wagner is slightly different in that he’s a defense-first 6-foot-9 wing. There aren’t really many of those around the league. He’s not as long and as disruptive as a Robert Covington, but his feel for the game defensively is similar, especially with his off-ball IQ. Ultimately, where Wagner settles in will be determined by his shooting. If he can become a legitimate 36 to 38 percent 3-point shooter from NBA distance off movement with a quick release — something that could be a potential outcome in a few years due to his touch — he’s going to be a starting-caliber role player because of the way he defends and passes. Hollinger’s team fit: I was a bit surprised to see Orlando pass on Sengun here. That said, it’s hard for me argue with the Wagner pick, as he was easily the best non-center left on my board. He’s a combo forward who can defend, handle the ball and score in transition, and his shooting ability should come around enough that the space-squeezed Magic won’t further suffer in this regard. The Magic likely pivoted here after Barnes wasn’t available for them at 5, walking away with one guard and one big wing but in the opposite order that they expected. Hollinger would have picked… Wagner or Sengun 9. Sacramento Kings Davion Mitchell | 6-3 guard | 22 years old, junior | Baylor Vecenie’s Ranking: 10 Mitchell emerged as a lottery pick after helping lead Baylor to a national title. His defensive ability at the point of attack is elite, and he has real offensive upside as a passer if he can just slow down. To me, he’s going to be best next to a primary scoring option at the two or three who can run the offense a bit and get clean looks late in the shot clock. Ultimately, his career will be determined by how much his jump shot improvement this year was real. Advertisement Hollinger’s team fit: Kangz!!! Sacramento already has a surfeit of guards, including the max contract DeAaron Fox is starting this year, added Tyrese Haliburton in the lottery last year, and traded picks for Delon Wright and Terence Davis. I’m not really sure where Mitchell fits in here unless the Kings plan on playing in a 6-foot-5 and under league. I also don’t understand why they passed on Sengun given that the Kings will have a hard team keeping free agent center Richaun Holmes. I had Mitchell lower on my board than this, so it’s puzzling in that respect too, but the bigger issue is how baffling this roster fit is. Hollinger would have picked… Sengun 10. New Orleans  (reportedly traded to Grizzlies) Ziaire Williams | 6-7 wing | 19 years old, freshman | Stanford Vecenie’s Ranking: 15 Williams is more of an all-or-nothing type of player. If his frame allows him to get stronger and he can put on the necessary weight and reach his full potential as a driver with how he initiates contact, he’s going to be pretty good. If he reaches his ceiling as a shooter, which is legitimately high, he has real potential to be a shot maker off the dribble, which, at 6-foot-9, is what every team in the NBA is looking for. There is some legitimate All-Star upside here, and he flashed it at times this past year in a significant way. But if he doesn’t have the ability to get stronger with what looks to be a frame on the slighter side, and the shooting merely translates to ‘good,’ and he continues to struggle to shoot it off the catch, there are some worlds where Williams ends up out of the NBA within five years. Hollinger’s team fit: Memphis traded up from No. 17 to No. 10 with New Orleans for this pick, reportedly with an eye on Giddey, but they clearly liked Williams too and were worried he wouldn’t be there later. Williams had an awful year at Stanford but his size and potential still had a lot of teams in the teens interested; I wasn’t as blown away but the Grizzlies did have a need for more size on the wing. Sengun is the most talented player here but didn’t necessarily fit the current Memphis frontcourt, however even if they were to pass on him I still think Moses Moody or James Bouknight would have been a far better choice here. It also seems possible Williams would have still been there at 17. Hollinger would have picked… Sengun or Moody 11. Charlotte Hornets James Bouknight | 6-5 wing | 20 years old, sophomore | Connecticut Vecenie’s Ranking: 9 Bouknight is just so shifty and so good at changing pace to create and get his shot. Those are skills that will translate legitimately to the NBA, at the very least as a bench scorer. He’s going to be able to create his shot. Where the upside will come in is on defense and with his passing. If he can improve in the way he reads help defenders and improve in his consistency on defense, Bouknight will be an NBA starter, and he plays with the kind of aggression and confidence that should allow him to ride through the ups and downs of his early NBA career. Advertisement Hollinger’s team fit: Why would you need Alperen Sengun when you already have Mason Plumlee? In all seriousness, if for some reason you didn’t think highly of Sengun then I still don’t think Bouknight made a ton of sense here. He’s a plausible choice talent-wise but this is a bad fit for him to develop. Charlotte is already committed to two other guards in LaMelo Ball and Devonte’ Graham plus has a ball-in-hand wing in Gordon Hayward. Bouknight profiles as a sixth-man scorer but it’s going to be hard for him to carve out a big role here. Hollinger would have picked… Sengun 12. San Antonio Spurs Joshua Primo | 6-6 guard | 18 years old, freshman | Alabama Vecenie’s Ranking: 34 The idea with Primo is that you are getting a high-upside player a year early as a draft pick, before he might be totally ready to play in the NBA. If he had stayed in school, he likely would have been seen as a lottery pick entering the 2022 process. But by taking him late in the first round or early in the second this year, a franchise might be getting a good asset at a much lower price due to the uncertainty surrounding parts of his game that he hasn’t proven at the college level. Primo can really shoot and he has some dexterity with the ball. Plus, he seems to want to defend. But he’s skinny and isn’t a crazy athlete. Hollinger’s team fit: WuT. Primo was seen as a possibility in the 20s, but certainly not here. The Alabama guard was a very low-usage player in his lone season there. While he has decent size and some shooting ability, his one game at the draft combine was hardly scintillating. Primo is the youngest collegian in the draft so there’s some upside potential here in that sense, but he’s not a high-wire athlete or a tremendous on-ball creator. San Antonio’s draft history deserves respect, but if this was really their guy it seems they could have pretty easily traded back first. Hollinger would have picked… Sengun Chris Duarte makes his way to the podium after hearing his name called by Indiana. (Michael J. LeBrecht II/NBAE via Getty Images) 13. Indiana Pacers Chris Duarte | 6-6 guard | 24 years old, senior | Oregon Vecenie’s Ranking: 14 Everything Duarte does is tailor-made for the next level. He’s a legit 40-plus 3-point shooter who can handle the ball and has good scoring instincts. He’s a terrific team defender, smart and rarely makes poor decisions. He doesn’t necessarily have a ton of star upside because he isn’t quite a true playmaker due to his lack of passing. But what he does successfully is about perfect for slotting into a role early in his NBA career. Advertisement Hollinger’s team fit: It’s a solid fit here, as Duarte is a good role-playing wing who can come in and contribute right away and the Pacers have an opening in their wing rotation he can immediately move into. The part I question here is whether the Pacers completely punted on upside by taking a 24-year-old in the lottery. While I’m a fan of Duarte and think he’s a near-certain rotation player, that’s almost certainly all your getting. Indiana could have gotten much of the same 3-and-D ability with far greater upside with Moses Moody. Hollinger would have picked… Moses Moody 14. Golden State Warriors Moses Moody | 6-6 wing | 18 years old, freshman | Arkansas Vecenie’s Ranking: 7 Moody is a 3-and-D wing. He’s already good at both of those things too and was good at them at 18 years old in a tough SEC this past season. I get the athleticism concerns, and he needs to speed up his jumper. But I’m buying Moody as a lottery pick because he’s so young, has such a strong outlook on the way he prepares for his craft and has production and talent to be successful. He seems to have the right mentality and does things that help his team win games. Hollinger’s team fit: I like the fit here for Golden State because they got a 3-and-D guy who can fit with some of their immediate goals, but didn’t completely punt on upside either. Moody doesn’t have a crazy high ceiling, but he’s a good defender with a 7-foot-1 wingspan and he has some development outcomes where he ends up as far more than just a shooter. It almost feels like the Warriors are more likely keep to this player than the one they took at No. 7 (Kuminga), given that Moody can probably help more in 2021-22. Hollinger would have picked… Moody 15. Washington Wizards Corey Kispert | 6-7 wing | 22 years old, senior | Gonzaga Vecenie’s Ranking: 18 Kispert is somewhere between Doug McDermott and Joe Harris on the spectrum of role-playing, floor-spacing wings. Both of those guys are useful players, but Harris is a bit more valuable because of his elite movement shooting and better defensive prowess. McDermott took a while to establish himself as a legitimate role player, which he has over the last four seasons, emerging this year as a borderline starter. It’s all dependent on how much Kispert can work on his defensive quickness. Will he turn into a liability at the NBA level? Can he improve that quickness? If he can, he’s going to make nine figures over the course of his career as a 41 to 44 percent 3-point shooter that starts a lot of NBA games. If he can’t? The shooting will likely allow him to stick in a rotation, but he might be more of a backup as opposed to a starter. Advertisement Hollinger’s team fit: It may feel like the Wizards are prioritizing “win now and make Beal happy” a bit too much, but Kispert was one the best players left on my board and has a clear pathway to utility as a combo forward in Washington next to Beal. A lineup of Beal, Kispert and Davis Bertans would be absolutely lethal from the perimeter. (It would also give up 400 points a game, but work with me). My lone issue here, again, is Sengun, especially with the Wizards having two of last season’s centers hitting free agency. He is by far the best player left on my board, but teams seem to feel differently. Hollinger would have picked… Sengun 16. Oklahoma City Thunder (reportedly traded to Rockets) Alperen Sengun | 6-10 big | 19 years old, international | Besiktas Vecenie’s Ranking: 8 Sengun is going to be absolutely terrific as an offensive player in the NBA. His feel for the game is elite, his footwork is outstanding and he’s going to shoot it at some point. His ability on screens to be productive is ridiculous, while also playing unselfishly and reading the floor like a 10-year NBA vet. But can he be effective enough on defense to get the most out of that offensive game? Right now, there are some real concerns. Hollinger’s team fit: Houston traded up with Oklahoma City to snag Sengun here, who I think was easily the most talented player left. The fit here next to Christian Wood is interesting, but I think the two can play together at times given that both are viable on the perimeter; the most vexing question will be whether the two can partner defensively without hemmorhaging points. Nonetheless, a team in Houston’s position absolutely has to bet on upside, and Sengun pretty clearly has All-Star upside given that he destroyed a high-level professional league as a teenager. Hollinger would have picked… Sengun 17. Memphis Grizzlies (reportedly traded to Pelicans) Trey Murphy | 6-8 wing | 20 years old, junior | Virginia Vecenie’s Ranking: 16 He’s an elite shooter who is a good bet to shoot 40 percent from 3 and be a plus defender. It’s a very similar size and skill set combination to Trevor Ariza, who has made nine figures in his career and has played over 1,200 games. Murphy is much more of a pure shooter and is going to be absolutely lethal spotting up from the corners. The impact that Cameron Johnson has made early in his career for Phoenix is a good barometer for how the early portion of Murphy’s career could go, except again, Murphy is a better athlete and better defender than Johnson was coming in. Advertisement Hollinger’s team fit: There was a lot of talk that New Orleans wanted Murphy here when the trade with Memphis happened, and he was indeed the Pelicans’ target. This is a win-now pick, with Murphy projecting as a low-usage 3-and-D small forward who can provide some much-needed floor spacing for the Pels’ beefy Zion Williamson-Jonas Valanciunas frontcourt. For me it’s too big a punt on upside at this point the draft, since the Pelicans are still pretty young and didn’t make the playoffs last year. Hollinger would have picked… Sengun. Just kidding – Usman Garuba 18. Oklahoma City Thunder Tre Mann | 6-5 guard | 19 years old, sophomore | Florida Vecenie’s Ranking: 33 The idea of what Mann is as a scorer is tantalizing. The NBA is a jump-shooting league. The guys who can get their own shot, particularly from behind the NBA 3-point line, are more valuable than ever. Having the skills he does as a shot creator and shooter gives him some real upside if he can iron out the rest of his game. But Mann is still a project and a developing player. He would be taken advantage of pretty substantially on the defensive end right now and has a long way to go to get to anywhere resembling an average level in the NBA. Hollinger’s team fit: I don’t really understand the fascination with Mann, whom I had rated 39th on my board, but there is obvious connective tissue between the Oklahoma City front office and the Florida program. He’ll get opportunities to play right away on a talent-barren Thunder roster, but one wonders if a team in the Thunder’s position should have made a bigger bet on the upside of Jalen Johnson or Keon Johnson. Hollinger would have picked… Jalen Johnson 19. New York Knicks (reportedly traded to Hornets) Kai Jones | 6-11 big | 19 years old, sophomore | Texas Vecenie’s Ranking: 19 One of the real swing players in this class. Jones has obvious, incredible upside. He has potential to be a genuine shot creator as a scorer from the perimeter at the center position. He switches and has unbelievable athleticism on both ends of the floor. Shooting and perimeter defense are two of the most important skills bigs can have in the modern NBA, and Jones could bring them to the table. But the glue to his game isn’t quite there yet, and it’s going to take a couple of patient years for an NBA franchise to get the most out of him. His feel just isn’t quite good enough on either end of the floor. Advertisement Hollinger’s team fit: There was a lot of chatter about Jones to Charlotte with the 11th pick, but apparently the Hornets pivoted when James Bouknight fell. I don’t love the idea of giving up a future first just to jump in and grab him here, but Jones fits an archetype that Charlotte doesn’t have on its roster: A long, athletic forward who can play as a switchable defender and offers some hints of upside as a floor spacer. Among big forwards I liked Jalen Johnson’s upside better and think Usman Garuba offered more definite defensive potential, but Charlotte did fill a need here. Hollinger would have picked… Johnson or Garuba 20. Atlanta Hawks Jalen Johnson | 6-8 forward | 19 years old, freshman | Duke Vecenie’s Ranking: 25 The idea behind Johnson is tantalizing, as he’s a 6-foot-9 creator who looks like a freight train who can handle and pass out in transition. He sees over the defense and makes plays well. But he’s not an awesome athlete in terms of explosiveness, and his tape was pretty poor on defense as a whole. Offensively, he struggles to shoot. On top of that, he didn’t really endear himself to NBA decision-makers by opting out of his season at Duke after a foot injury and some on-court adversity. Johnson was one of the most polarizing players for most evaluators to parse through this year. Hollinger’s team fit: Solid upside swing here by the Hawks, who didn’t necessarily have a glaring need at backup four but took the most talented player available. Johnson is big, athletic and can handle the ball, but some teams had questions about his background and ability to make plays in the halfcourt. Nonetheless, he was one of the few players left with something more than role-player upside, and offers a bit of roster protection if they can’t keep free agent John Collins. Hollinger would have picked… Johnson Keon Johnson is interviewed after being drafted by the New York Knicks. (Arturo Holmes/Getty Images) 21. New York Knicks (reportedly traded to Los Angeles Clippers) Keon Johnson | 6-5 wing | 19 years old, freshman | Tennessee Vecenie’s Ranking: 21 Johnson is an unbelievable athlete, and his intersection of motor, competitiveness and athleticism will allow him to stick in the NBA for a while. But it might just be as a role player unless he tightens his handle and really works through improving the shot. The shot will be something of a swing skill for him, given how far off his creation skills are. To get on the floor early offensively, Johnson is going to need to really rep through his jumper and get it to the point where it is reliable and can be built upon. That would allow him a base to get playing time, which would then enable him to work through some of his other skills as a potential creator. The upside with Johnson is very high because he might be the best athlete in the class, but the floor is low. Advertisement Hollinger’s team fit: The Clippers traded up from No. 25 to grab this pick in a trade with New York, surrendering a future second. Johnson is a pure upside play, with spectacular leaping ability offset by a more pedestrian skill level and an odd inability to impact games with is athleticism beyond pull-up jumpers. It was a bit surprising to see the Clippers take this leap rather than a rebuilding team, as L.A. is more of a win-now team that might look at upperclassmen. But the Clips thought the value proposition was worth moving up, and he’ll have a chance to quietly develop at the back end of their roster. Hollinger would have picked… Garuba 22. Los Angeles Lakers (reportedly traded to Pacers via Wizards) Isaiah Jackson | 6-10 center | 19 years old, freshman | Kentucky Vecenie’s Ranking: 26 Jackson is the typical defense-first, rim-running center. This is a tried-and-true model player in today’s NBA, with guys like the Clint Capela, Mitchell Robinson, Nerlens Noel, Robert Williams and Jarrett Allen being the poster childs. Jackson is a bit skinnier than this group, coming in at about 210 pounds pre-draft. He’ll need to work on his frame a bit quicker than what those guys did to play, but there are a lot of similarities here that he brings to the table. Hollinger’s team fit: This pick went from L.A. to Washington in the Russell Westbrook trade, and then to Indiana for guard Aaron Holiday. The Wizards piece makes some sense — Washington has no point guards left on the roster – but the 22nd pick might be a bit of a reach to have one year of the erratic Holiday before having to pay him. Jackson going to Indiana is equally puzzling, given that the Pacers already have last year’s first-rounder (Goga Bitadze) and struggle to toggle two starting centers with Domantas Sabonis and Myles Turner. One wonders if this portends other moves for the Pacers. I had Jared Butler as by far the best player left on my board, and would have taken him for any of these three teams. Hollinger would have picked… Jared Butler 23.Houston Rockets Usman Garuba | 6-8 big | 18 years old | Real Madrid Vecenie’s Ranking: 11 Garuba is one of the most complete defensive prospects to enter the NBA Draft in a while. He may not have the most upside of any player on defense in this class (that falls to Evan Mobley if things break right for his development), but he’s the best defender in the class right now. Ultimately, he needs to get better offensively to take advantage of those skills, though. If he’s not good enough offensively, he won’t be able to get on the court enough to make that All-Defense team and be anything more than a good role player. Advertisement Hollinger’s team fit: The Rockets love players like this, with defensive switchability and maybe not-so-great shooting, but Garuba was projected to go higher than this and I think Houston got some tremendous value here. The fit in the frontcourt is a bit concerning because they have Wood and Sengun already, but he can play with either because both can shoot. Also, the Rockets can utilize Garuba as a defensive anchor to offset some of the weaknesses of those two. Hollinger would have picked… Garuba or Butler 24. Houston Rockets Josh Christopher | 6-4 guard | 19 years old, freshman | Arizona State Vecenie’s Ranking: 42 Christopher certainly has quite a bit of talent as a shot creator. He’s shifty and vicious with how he gets into his shot — but the standard for playing this role in the NBA is exceptionally high. You need to not just be a good shooter; you have to be a great one. Currently, it’s uncertain if Christopher qualifies for the former designation. If we looked up in five years and Christopher was a terrific bench scorer because he worked hard to become the kind of shooter to be able to play that role in the NBA, I wouldn’t be particularly surprised. His ability to get separation is real. If a team wants to take a flyer on that, I totally get it, especially given the defensive upside that exists with his disruptiveness. Hollinger’s team fit: Christopher is a defensible pick here. He’s a good athlete who has to work out of some bad offensive habits, but the potential is here for a scorer who can defend the position at shooting guard. He’ll have to improve his outside shot and become less dependent on forced jump shots, and obviously there’s going to be some positional overlap with Green. I might have looked at Butler or Miles McBride here, my two top players remaining and both point guards, but I had a first-round grade on Christopher. Hollinger would have picked… Butler 25. Los Angeles Clippers (reportedly traded to Knicks) Quentin Grimes | 6-5 guard | 21 years old, junior | Houston Vecenie’s Ranking: 38 Grimes is a limited guy to an extent due to not having a ton of shifty athleticism, and he’s a 3-and-D player that hasn’t quite yet hit shots yet from behind the NBA 3-point distance. But he’s got a real shot to be useful defensively, and if the shot continues to develop at this level, he could become a really valuable role player. He just needs to keep progressing in the way he processes the game. Advertisement Hollinger’s team fit: New York acquired this pick from the Clippers in a trade-down from pick 21. Grimes had a really good week at the NBA draft combine, but this still feels high. He’s a high-volume shooter from 3 and a solid defender, and the Knicks have earned the benefit of the doubt from the Immanuel Quickley selection a year ago on this type of player. Nonetheless, I liked McBride and Butler a lot better among combo guards, as well as a couple of other players (Jaden Springer and Jason Preston) likely to go a bit later. Hollinger would have picked… Butler or McBride 26. Denver Nuggets Bones Hyland | 6-3 guard | 20 years old | VCU Vecenie’s Ranking: 31 Hyland has an awful lot of potential to be a backup scoring guard in the vein of a Jordan Clarkson. He has so much game off the bounce, and his range is ridiculous. He is the kind of shot maker that can win games for teams off the bench when he’s rolling. But he’s going to need to get stronger to open the rest of his game as a driver, and he’s going to need to learn to play with better bend to keep the ball lower to the ground as a handler and thus reduce turnovers. Hollinger’s team fit: Hyland improved his stock after a great performance at the draft combine, and fits the profile of a bench-scoring guard that could fit into Denver’s bench rotation. While the Nuggets backcourt is a bit crowded, they haven’t had a high-level shot creator other than Jamal Murray, and Hyland is a good enough shooter to thrive off the ball as well. There were guards I liked better, but the fit here is tough to argue. Hollinger would have picked… Butler or McBride 27. Brooklyn Nets Cam Thomas | 6-3 guard | 19 years old, freshman | LSU Vecenie’s Ranking: 27 Where you are on Thomas depends on how good you think he is as a scorer. Because the rest of his game is so poor and he provides very little value in aspects of basketball beyond scoring the ball, Thomas will need to be so good at scoring that he overcomes his weaknesses. And here’s the thing: That threshold for scoring in the NBA is exceptionally high. Having said that, Thomas genuinely might meet it, given that he finished fourth in the country in scoring as a teenager and has all sorts of creativity as a scorer. Advertisement Hollinger’s team fit: Interesting pick since Thomas is an on-ball, microwave scorer who will be a secondary option most of the time in Brooklyn, but given how often their three main stars have been out of the lineup the past two years it’s not that shocking. (In fact I had Thomas here in my mock). The Nets had Mike James in this role a year ago, and they have played other scorers with this group at various times; the likely departure of Spencer Dinwiddie in free agency increases the need Thomas will likely battle newly acquired Jevon Carter for playing time beyond Kyrie Irving. Hollinger would have picked… Butler or McBride Philadelphia may have found late value in Tennessee guard Jaden Springer. (Brett Carlsen/Getty Images) 28. Philadelphia 76ers Jaden Springer | 6-4 guard | 18 years old, freshman | Tennessee Vecenie’s Ranking: 20 Springer is talented but has a difficult game to project to the next level. He’s going to really have to add some different craft and counters, as well as change the way he plays solely off of two feet. If he figures out the jumper, he’s a terrific 3-and-D two-guard who can pinch hit at the one sometimes, take on tough perimeter defensive assignments with how good he is on the ball and hopefully provide value on offense. The road really isn’t that far, even if the upside is something more in the range of an effective role player as opposed to a star. Hollinger’s team fit: Some of this will inevitably depend on how the Sixers work out a Ben Simmons trade, but I had Springer rated in my top 20 and think Philadelphia got good value here. He profiles as more of a combo guard and his role could collide with that of Shake Milton, but his defense may be good enough to get him some minutes right away. While I’ve also argued for Butler or McBride in previous picks, Springer is younger and has more long-term upside. I like his chance to make an impact here in future seasons. Hollinger would have picked… Springer 29. Phoenix Suns (reportedly traded to Nets) Day’Ron Sharpe | 6-11 center | 19 years old, freshman | North Carolina Vecenie’s Ranking: 40 How you feel about Sharpe likely comes down to how much you value the fact that he displays a lot of things that are naturally unteachable. He’s one of those dudes who just seems to know what he’s doing out there at a high level. He makes really high-level reads and rotations. Some of the passes he makes for his size display a feel that isn’t normal for a big. He’s light on his feet and is the kind of athlete who tends to outperform the traditional valuations of explosive athleticism. But he’s pretty rough on defense right now, and his touch hasn’t been awesome at any level. Advertisement Hollinger’s team fit: Sharpe had been rumored to be the pick for Brooklyn for a while, which is a bit odd since the Nets A) already have a developmental center in Nic Claxton, and B) often play without a center at all to take advantage of their skillful superstars. I didn’t even have Sharpe as the highest-rated center left, but others were higher on him than me. Still, I think Brooklyn could have looked at a defensive pest like Aaron Henry here, or a shooter like Joe Wieskamp. Hollinger would have picked… Henry 30. Utah Jazz (reportedly traded to Grizzlies) Santi Aldama | 6-11 big | 20 years old, sophomore | Loyola (MD) Vecenie’s Ranking: 36 Aldama is gifted as a playmaking 5 who fits the modern style of play due to his perimeter skill and decision-making comfort. He processes the game at such a high level that it’s easy to see how, with some further strength training, he’s going to be a useful NBA player. He dominated the Patriot League to a ridiculous extent this past year. However, he does have some real athletic deficiencies. Hollinger’s team fit: This is a big surprise. Aldama was rumored to be shut down by Oklahoma City with the idea of taking him 34th or 36th and stashing him overseas at Gran Canaria. Memphis scuttled that plan by jumping in to grab him, and I like this gamble here. I had a first-round grade on Aldama based on sheer upside. He played in a horrible conference last year and dominated it, and is a developmental pick, but these are dice rolls the Grizzlies should be taking. Given Aldama’s potential size/skill combo as a four, I like the risk/reward equation here better than the one they took with Williams at No. 10. One suspects Memphis will still stash Aldama in Spain, however, given how crowded the Grizzlies’ roster looks. Hollinger would have picked… Aldama 31. Milwaukee Bucks (reportedly traded to Wizards) Isiaiah Todd | 6-10 F | 19 years old | G League Ignite Vecenie’s Ranking: 53 Todd has genuine tools that are worth developing, and those tools have real value for where the league is going. But Todd has such a long way to go in significant respects. His complete inability to absorb contact right now is going to make his transition difficult. Throughout his time spent getting stronger and more willing to play through contact, he’s going to have to significantly improve his feel for the game. He has the physical tools to be a 3-and-D big man, but he’s multiple years away from making an NBA impact. Advertisement Hollinger’s team fit: Washington got this pick from Indiana, who got it from Milwaukee, and grabbed Todd. He has a sweet outside stroke that could eventually become a weapon from 3-point range and prototype power forward size, but he struggled to operate in the paint at both ends and needs to get a lot stronger. He certainly won’t help right away. I still like my guards Butler and McBride way, way better than any of the guys getting picked right now. Hollinger would have picked… Butler or McBride 32. New York Knicks (reportedly traded to Thunder) Jeremiah Robinson-Earl | 6-9 F | 20 years old | Villanova Vecenie’s Ranking: 30 Where you fall on Robinson-Earl likely comes down to the jumper. If you think he’s going to shoot it at some point, then you should probably be a fan and have him in the late first round. He’s a smart defender who profiles very nicely as a role player on that end of the floor and will make the right reads. He’s smart, finishes around the rim, plays unselfishly and profiles nicely as a rotation player at the next level. But he’s not a super athlete, and needs to iron out the jumper consistency. Hollinger’s team fit: This pick is going to Oklahoma City. I wasn’t as high on Robinson-Earl, in fact I had him outside my top 60; he has good feel for the game but is a B- athlete who hasn’t established himself as a floor space, and he’s likely too small to play 5. Hollinger would have picked… Butler or McBride 33. Orlando Magic (reportedly traded to Clippers) Jason Preston | 6-4 G | 21 years old | Ohio Vecenie’s Ranking: 48 Preston is a phenomenal passer and has some of the best feel for the game of anyone in the class. But there are some real questions about how he’s going to get anywhere on the court due to his athleticism and high handle, there are questions about his jumper, and whether or not he can defend. It’s hard to bet against the trajectory, though, as no one has improved more since the start of his senior year of high school. Advertisement Hollinger’s team fit: Orlando is sending this pick to the Clippers. I like Preston quite a bit and had a first-round grade on him. The Clippers need point guard help, and in particularly good passers, and Preston can do that. I like the fit here with him quite a bit and think he’s been a bit undervalued in the draft process. I wouldn’t be shocked if he can take some backup rotation minutes as a rookie. Hollinger would have picked… Preston 34. Oklahoma City Thunder (reportedly traded to Knicks) Rokas Jokubaitis | 6-4 G | 20 years old | Zalgris Vecenie’s Ranking: 29 Jokubaitis processes the game well and plays with a high-skill level. He makes live dribble passes all over the court and takes advantage of any mistake the defense makes. And he can play both on or off the ball. On top of that, at just 20 years old, the Lithuanian guard has proven he can play a critical role for a great overseas team in the second toughest league in the world. Jokubaitis likely won’t be a star in the same way as Goran Dragic because I don’t think he’s as shifty as Dragic. But he can provide similar value to late-career Dragic, who is still a valuable and knows how to run an offense and provide value next to a wide variety of players. Hollinger’s team fit: We have our first stash pick! New York acquired this pick from the Thunder; Jokubaitis is under contract with FC Barcelona and won’t be joining the Knicks roster for the coming season. However, he gives New York a good future asset who can likely cross the pond and join the Knicks’ backcourt in another year or two. Jokubaitis has an in-between game that reminds me a bit of Beno Udrih, but he still needs to improve his 3-point shot and he might be a bit between 1 and 2 positionally. Hollinger would have picked… Jokubaitis, if stashing 35. New Orleans Pelicans Herbert Jones | 6-7 wing | 22 years old | Alabama Vecenie’s Ranking: 28 It’s very easy to project Jones into a high-leverage role scalable to playing a winning role on good teams if the jump shot comes together. He’s a genuine plus defender, a high-level passer, and he’s smart in the way he thinks about the game. But it all comes down to the jumper. Without it, he’s more of a bench player. And there are plenty of reasons to be worried about if he can reach the level he needs to. Advertisement Hollinger’s team fit: I like this pick quite a bit for New Orleans. Jones is a shaky shooter on a team that already has shaky shooters, but he’s a top-notch defender who can guard 1 through 4 and soak up minutes at the backup forward spots. He also can operate with the ball in his hands as a playmaker; I had a first-round grade on him. There are several guards left on the board that I liked, but Jones was my highest-rated wing player. Hollinger would have picked… Jones Miles McBride could be an immediate rotation player in New York. (Ben Queen-USA TODAY Sports) 36. Oklahoma City Thunder (reportedly traded to Knicks) Miles McBride | 6-2 wing | 20 years old | West Virginia Vecenie’s Ranking: 22 It’s hard to find guards who have this level of skill across the board. McBride tics a number of boxes that directly translate to the NBA. He’s a terrific shooter who can get his own shot, a good distributor with some upside and a terrific on-ball defender. Those skills all translate exceptionally well toward being a high-end backup point guard. If the distribution and passing takes a leap as he moves out of West Virginia’s scheme – as it did late in the season when they played a bit more spaced out (he averaged nearly six assists per game in his final 15 contests), there is even some real starter quality upside here. Hollinger’s team fit: I love this pick for New York, who acquired the pick from the Thunder. McBride is an absolute bulldog and Tom Thibodeau will love him; he can also shoot. His superior length and ability to pressure the ball should make him a plus defender; the biggest shortcoming is that he’s limited as an offensive creator. Nonetheless, I think he can be a rotation player right away and am stunned he lasted this long. Hollinger would have picked… McBride! Yes! 37. Detroit Pistons (reportedly traded to Hornets) JT Thor | 6-10 F | 18 years old | Auburn Vecenie’s Ranking: 43 Thor’s mixture of size, length, reactivity and fluidity makes him a genuinely fascinating defensive prospect at 18 years old. If the shooting ever comes around, he’s a 3-and-D hybrid who could provide some interesting, unique value as a stretch five if he gets stronger. He’s still so young, and there is so much time for him to develop. There is just so much he needs to improve upon. I’m not sure I can remember a prospect entering the league who needed to add so many things and became an effective player in doing so. He needs to get stronger, become a more consistent shooter, become a better passer and continue to learn in terms of defensive rotations — and that’s just to get to a baseline level, not to become an actual plus player in each of those skills. Advertisement Hollinger’s team fit: Extending the original idea of getting a big, long forward into their roster mix that I expressed earlier with the Kai Jones pick, Charlotte doubles down on the notion here by grabbing Thor. He’s more of a pure developmental pick who is unlikely to contribute much this season, but his length and hints of scoring potential make him an alluring upside play. Hollinger would have picked… Thor 38. Chicago Bulls Ayo Dosunmu | 6-2 G | 21 years old | Illinois Vecenie’s Ranking: 23 At the very least, Dosunmu is a good defender who should be able to create a shot out of ball screens and get offense in transition. The jumper will be the swing skill. He can be a complementary fifth starter or high-end sixth man if he continues to really shoot it at a high level. But if he doesn’t, he’s definitely more of a rotation player. But he’s a great character kid who you want to bet on due to his mentality and work ethic. Hollinger’s team fit: I can’t believe they took Dosunmu over Jared Butler. The Illinois product gets to stay close to home and offers some toughness and size at the shooting guard spot, but the Bulls need to get more upside at the guard position than this. Hollinger would have picked… Butler 39. Sacramento Kings Neemias Queta | 7-0 C | 21 years old | Utah State Vecenie’s Ranking: 55 There is a lot to like about Queta, largely because of the defense. He’s very good inside. He has a case as being the best interior defender in this class because of how good he is at contesting at the basket and staying vertical while doing so. Few players possess tools like this and use them to the level of effectiveness that Queta is capable of. Throw in his passing, and there is a potential role as a backup center if things go right. It’s not impossible he could start some games; the lack of lateral quickness gives me real pause here. Teams are really going to try to get him away from the rim and force him to defend in space. Advertisement Hollinger’s team fit: Hooray Kings! I have been driving the Queta bandwagon all year and had him rated 21st on my board, but most NBA teams seemed less excited about him. He has developmental upside but also has enough skill as a passer and rim protector to play minutes immediately and not kill them, plus the Kings obviously have a need for a big 5 right now. I think Sacramento got really good value here. Hollinger would have picked… Queta 40. New Orleans Pelicans (reportedly traded to Jazz) Jared Butler | 6-3 G | 20 years old | Baylor Vecenie’s Ranking: 17 Butler is such a tailor-made fit as a combo scoring guard with a little bit more for today’s NBA. His ability to hit shots off the catch and off movement will translate well to playing next to stars. His ability to create his own shot with his tight handle out of isolation will make him useful running the show occasionally with bench units. On top of that, he’s a hard worker on defense and a smart passer. This is an easy skill set to make work in today’s NBA. Hollinger’s team fit: Yes!!! Great pick for Utah, who acquired this pick from Memphis via New Orleans. Butler had some health questions that damaged his stock, but at this point in the draft the risk of a player failing due to lack of talent far exceeds any risk of him failing due to injury. Butler gives the Jazz a high-level combo guard who can play next to Donovan Mitchell or Mike Conley, and could be good enough to play rotation minutes right away. Hollinger would have picked… Butler! 41. San Antonio Spurs Joe Wieskamp | 6-7 wing | 21 years old, junior | Iowa Vecenie’s Ranking: 35 There are a lot of similarities between Wieskamp and Duncan Robinson. Both are bigger, 6-foot-7 shooters, and that size plays a pivotal role in their ability to get off shots other elite shooters can’t from the wing. Having said that, Wieskamp is definitely a lesser version of Robinson right now, as the Miami Heat starter has a way better feel for flying off screens and is just a bit better as a shooter. And given the weaknesses Wieskamp has that are like Robinson, there are true diminishing returns if he’s 80 percent of Robinson versus the full version. Advertisement Hollinger’s team fit: Wieskamp is a good, solid pick here for a San Antonio team that needs more 3-point shooting and will have some roster holes on the wing that Wieskamp could help fill. He has a real chance to be a back-end rotation player immediately given the roster and team needs. Hollinger would have picked … Wieskamp or Aaron Henry 42. Detroit Pistons Isaiah Livers | 6-7 wing | 22 years old, senior | Michigan Vecenie’s Ranking: 52 Livers is just a terrific spot shooter. If you leave him open, he’s going to absolutely make them. If you contest at all, he still will make a lot of them. Throw that in with what was solid, steady on-ball defense in college, and it’s easy to see why teams see Livers as a 3-and-D potential wing who can help on both ends of the floor. But there’s concern about what else he brings to the table. He’s a very limited type of player right now. He needs to improve as a passer and playmaker and improve as a defender for me to be particularly interested. Hollinger’s team fit: I didn’t have Livers in my top 70; he can shoot but his overall game is pretty limited, and I thought Detroit would have been offer targeting more upside here … especially with another local product sitting right here who was likely a superior prospect. Hollinger would have picked… Henry 43. New Orleans Pelicans (officially traded to Blazers) Greg Brown | 6-8 forward | 19 years old, freshman | Texas Vecenie’s Ranking: 44 Brown’s upside athletically is clear. He’s an elite leaper. Long term, I’d bet on him being an NBA player if he can iron out the skill stuff and keep learning how to play. His margin for error is enormous because of what he brings to the table as a potentially switchable defender who can protect the rim as a four-man. Brown has a lot of the skills that Jerami Grant brought to the table early in his career, maybe even to a greater extent. But it’s going to take so much time that I don’t know that I’m wildly interested in giving him a lot of guaranteed money early. Advertisement Hollinger’s team fit: Portland acquired this pick from New Orleans and took an upside Hail Mary on Brown, a pogo leaper who can maybe shoot a little but has a very rudimentary feel for the game. He could become another Derrick Jones, Jr. if everything hits. Of course, the Blazers already have the original Derrick Jones, Jr., and that isn’t totally working out either. There’s a cap angle to this trade as well, as Portland can have a rookie minimum contract in its 14th roster spot to help ease its luxury tax situation. Hollinger would have picked… Henry Hollinger would have picked… Henry Kessler Edwards has the length to be a solid 3 and D guy at the next level. (Jayne Kamin-Oncea/Getty Images) 44. Brooklyn Nets Kessler Edwards | 6-8 wing | 20 years old, junior | Pepperdine Vecenie’s Ranking: 37 Edwards’ shooting and defense combination is good enough for him to make an impact. It’s hard to find guys who can shoot off movement like this at 6-foot-8. The shot mechanics are funky, but if he can run off screens like this and force defenders out onto him, he can be a pretty effective floor-spacer. And then on top of it, he has real defensive value due to his weak side rim protection as well as his instinctual awareness. Having said that, his lack of ball-handling and concerns over the lack of counter that he presents offensively cause concerns. Hollinger’s team fit: Edwards is a combo forward with some perimeter skill as a shooter; he’s pretty limited and stiff, especially at the offensive end, but has shown the ability to defend on the perimeter and has pathways to a low-usage 3-and-D role. Not the sexiest thing, but a good thing to have on the type of roster the Nets already have. Hollinger would have picked… Henry 45. Boston Celtics Juhann Begarin | 6-6 wing | 18 years old | Paris Vecenie’s Ranking: 54 The idea here is betting on a guy with all the physical tools but none of the feel or necessary skills, yet, to play in the NBA. He should be a terrific driver but doesn’t have the polish or skill yet. He should be a great finisher due to his physicality but doesn’t have the craft. He should be a great defender but is still learning what he needs to do positionally. Basically, it’s a bet on a player who is extremely young learning how to use his tools. And indeed, Begarin’s tools are absolutely ridiculous. It’s hard to find guys who are this tall, with this strong of a frame, with this kind of length, who have his explosiveness out in transition as well as his body control. Advertisement Hollinger’s team fit: Another stash! Begarin is a French guard who has some athleticism but was underwhelming at the G-League elite camp. He needs to stay overseas and work on his skill level before he has a realistic shot at contributing in the NBA. Boston already has 13 players under contract for next season and didn’t need to add anymore, so going the stash route here made sense. Hollinger would have picked… Begarin or Yoan Makoundou 46. Toronto Raptors Dalano Banton | 6-9 wing | 21 years old | Nebraska Vecenie’s Ranking: 72 The weaknesses outweigh the positives right now for Banton as it refers to what he’d look like on an NBA court. The key here, however, is to project what someone could look like in a few years, and Banton is the epitome of a player who is a jump shot away from being very effective offensively. It’s hard to find players who are this big and have skills. If Banton shoots, it’s easy to imagine him becoming the kind of player who effectively makes an NBA impact. He is big enough to see over defenders and already makes high-level passing reads. He covers ground quickly, especially when he has any sort of advantage. He drives transition play. He’s going to have to make a concerted effort to improve on defense, but the margin for error is much bigger on that end when you’re that tall. It all comes down to the jumper. If Banton shoots well, he’s probably an NBA player, but honestly, it’s probably a mistake leaving college. Hollinger’s team fit: I had Banton rated a bit lower, but he’s an interesting project for Toronto’s development staff because he has size, can handle the ball and pass. The issue is that he can’t shoot and doesn’t have elite athleticism. The Raptors also will win points locally for selecting the Canadian product. That said, it’s a bit surprising they passed on Sharife Cooper here since they’re going to need some guards. Hollinger would have picked… Cooper 47. Toronto Raptors David Johnson | 6-5 guard | 20 years old, sophomore | Louisville Vecenie’s Ranking: 39 Johnson defends and fights on one end and really fosters ball movement with terrific passing on the other. There are roles for him to really become an effective NBA player. But he’s going to have to keep working on his frame (he could stand to get into elite shape), and he’s going to have to keep improving the jumper. If he’s not even a threat as a pull-up option, he’s probably not going to stick at the NBA level as a two-guard. He’s not quite athletic enough to be a true one that is a primary guy even off the bench. But with how good he is on defense and that elite level passing? His feel for the game gives him a real chance if the skill level catches up. Advertisement Hollinger’s team fit: Well, the Raptors have a type. They want to select athletes who can’t shoot and hope that their coaches are good enough to fix them. Johnson is athletic, but he’s also pretty wild on the ball and defensively struggled to contain quicker players, which is why I never bought the first-round buzz on him. I thought Aaron Henry was a better player of this ilk if they wanted to go this route. Hollinger would have picked… Henry 48. Atlanta Hawks Sharife Cooper | 6-1 guard | 20 years old, freshman | Auburn Vecenie’s Ranking: 24 Cooper has the most interesting mix of genuinely elite skills and potentially damning flaws of any prospect I can remember in recent history. He’s legitimately an awesome passer and playmaker. He will enter the NBA as a top-20 ballhandler and live-dribble passer. His gifts with those parts of his game are that good. But will teams be as willing to collapse on him defensively and open up passing angles for him if they don’t think he is an efficient scorer? Cooper desperately needs to develop a jump shot. If he does that, he’s going to be a quality starting NBA guard offensively. But defensively, I have signficiant long-term questions, as the tape was worse than anything even Trae Young showed at Oklahoma. Hollinger’s team fit: Bravo, Atlanta. The highest-rated guard left on my board by a wide, wide margin, Cooper is a surprise to be available this far down the board. He’s a pure point guard who may be viable as a backup in the short term if his passing and penetration ability can offset his shooting and defensive shortcomings. Longer-term, if the shot comes around he could be a real force in pick-and-roll, and he’ll be learning from a maestro in Trae Young. Hollinger would have picked… Cooper 49. Brooklyn Nets Marcus Zegarowski | 6-2 guard | 22 years old, junior | Creighton Vecenie’s Ranking: 82 Cerebral, smart point guard who has a consistent history of hitting 3s at a near-elite level. Was consistently between 42 and 43 percent from 3 over all three collegiate seasons, with a 500-plus shot volume. Very versatile shot. Superb both off the catch and off the bounce. Hit 45.3 percent of his attempts off the catch, nearly all of which were from 3. That’s an elite mark. Additionally, hit better than 41 percent of his pull-ups with a 52.9 effective field goal percentage, another superb mark that is among the top in the class. Has a nice floater and can finish at the rim. Clearly has real touch. Beyond that, was consistently a smart decision maker. Not the most creative player in the world, but does make some nice reads out of ball screens. The ultimate concerns here are obvious. He’s not a great athlete, and on top of that, more of a crafty ballhandler than a player who explodes in and out of his moves. Significant worries about whether he can gain the separation he’ll need to be a lead guard at the next level. There are legitimate defensive concerns. Advertisement Hollinger’s team fit: Huh? I did not expect Zegarowski to get drafted. He was a good, productive college point guard, and he can shoot, but he looked overmatched at the combine, can’t turner the corner on offense and is going to be a speed bump defensively. If the Nets really wanted a point guard here, McKinley Wright would have been a better call. Hollinger would have picked… Wright 50. Philadelphia 76ers Filip Petrusev | 7-0 center | 21 years old | Mega Vecenie’s Ranking: 58 Petrusev has been about as productive as a center can be over the last two years. He was an All-American at Gonzaga, then went overseas and won MVP in an incredibly competitive league. He has great hands and great touch. But I can’t quite get there with him largely due to concerns over what his fit is in the NBA. He does not have any chance to get stops on defense in the NBA, and that’s while playing the most important defensive position. The stretch shooting is nice, and it does give him a differentiator, but I’m not sure it’s enough of one to make up for the defensive concerns. Hollinger’s team fit : Good stash pick! Petrusev is a big man who played at Gonzaga two years ago but wasn’t draft eligible til this year. He can score in the paint and has developed a 3-point shot in his time overseas, but the defensive concerns with him are legit. Philly will likely keep him overseas for a while longer and see if he can improve enough on that end to come over as a backup five. 51. Memphis Grizzlies (reportedly traded to Pelicans) BJ Boston Jr. | 6-7 wing | 19 years old, freshman | Kentucky Vecenie’s Ranking: 41 There are situational factors that could see Boston become the next Kentucky player to exceed his draft standing. The floor was very condensed, so some of his driving acumen may have been diminished by teams being able to collapse down more easily on him due to the team’s lack of shooting around him. That also probably hindered some passing ability. But I’m also not sure that this is the traditional Kentucky player in terms of athleticism. He’s more in the Tyrese Maxey class of athlete as a non-elite one, without the natural touch that Maxey has the defensive floor that Maxey brought to the table last year. And yet, if Boston can work, figure out the jumper and get stronger, there are some real potential upsides for him to become a valuable NBA player. I do think it’s going to take time, and it’s going to take a lot of development from the team that selects him. Advertisement Hollinger’s team fit: New Orleans acquired this pick from Memphis. This is a completely reasonable gamble on talent here by the Pelicans on Boston, who some thought would be a top ten pick heading into the season but had a horrible year at Kentucky. Somehow his brutal year affected his draft stock a lot more than Ziaire Williams’, his former AAU teammate. Hollinger would have picked… Boston or Henry Luka Garza, one of the best players in college basketball, hopes his skill set will translate to the next level. (Jeffrey Becker-USA TODAY Sports) 52. Detroit Pistons Luka Garza | 6-11 center | 22 years old, senior | Iowa Vecenie’s Ranking: 57 Arguably the most productive player in college hoops the last two years. Will the offense outweigh the defense over small spurts in the NBA? There is a case for it as a backup five. He’s so strong that he will be able to carve out an impact in the paint. He has a chance to be a genuinely elite NBA shooter for a big. He’s that smooth as a stretch five, but what is a potential backup center worth? Honestly, not much more than a second-rounder, and it’s going to take him some time before he gets to the point where he’s passable enough on defense to where the offense overcomes it, too. Hollinger’s team fit: I actually think Garza is a reasonable gamble here. He’s probably going to get torched on defense, but if he can be even remotely competent at that end he has enough offensive skill to carve out a halfway decent career. That’s a win at 52 if it works out. Apparently the league hates Aaron Henry, but my other players to look at here were some big forwards like Aamir Simms and RaiQuan Gray. Hollinger would have picked… Garza, Henry or Gray. 53. Philadelphia 76ers Charles Bassey | 6-10 center | 20 years old, junior | Western Kentucky Vecenie’s Ranking: 59 I’m still skeptical that he’ll be anything more than a backup center, but he has a pretty reasonable chance to get there with some simple improvements within his game. He has to be willing to keep things as simple as possible, with none of the crazy stuff off the bounce that leads to turnovers. He needs to get better positionally in drop coverage — a process that has already begun. He also has to be more willing to just go up and play through physical play, something else he’s improved on but needs to get even better. He’s such an easy leaper and good rim runner with strong hands that it’s easy to understand an offensive role here. And he’s instinctually so good around the basket as a rim protector that he might be able to carve out a role there, too. Advertisement Hollinger’s team fit: The Sixers paid $2 million to buy this pick from New Orleans. They should speak to the manager and demand a refund. I have a hard time getting excited about Bassey, but he can shoot it a little and is a decent rebounder, so if he doesn’t get eviscerated on defense he might have a chance. If I was going to go big here, however, I think Jericho Sims had a much more plausible pathway to rotation-caliber minutes. Hollinger would have picked… Sims 54. Indiana Pacers (reportedly traded to Bucks) Sandro Mamukelashvili | 6-11 big | 22 years old, senior | Seton Hall Vecenie’s Ranking: 45 Can’t emphasize enough how weird his game is. He’s going to be a very situational player. Needs to find a team that will be willing to take advantage of his ability to grab and go and lead the break, as well as his dexterity and fluidity with the ball in his hands. He also needs to find the right home defensively with a scheme that can insulate him. There are limited parameters where he’s going to be truly successful, but if the right team can unlock him and he gets the jumper figured out in terms of consistency, he could be a legitimately interesting third big man. Hollinger’s team fit: Milwaukee acquired this pick from Indiana and got an interesting player in Mamukelashvili. He’s a big who can handle the ball and has some playmaking and rim attacking in him, but his lack of shooting and plus athleticism is a limitation that may keep him from playing that role at the NBA level. I don’t hate this pick but Like RaiQuian Gray, Aami Simms and Moses Wright a little better. Hollinger would have picked… RaiQuan Gray 55. Oklahoma City Thunder Aaron Wiggins| 6-6 wing | 22 years old, junior| Maryland Vecenie’s Ranking: 65 Wiggins is riding a strong pre-draft process into the draft, which has pushed him from very likely to go undrafted into a circumstance where he could legitimately get picked. I wouldn’t hate it if a team took him in order to two-way him. He’s a legitimately interesting prospect physically. He has tools that teams absolutely are on the lookout for, and his shooting has enough of a floor to where it’s worth taking a chance on him. But given the total lack of consistency – even at times during what was a stronger junior season – it’s hard to trust him beyond that level. If he goes from more of a 35 percent 3-point shooter to a 39 percent guy consistently, while also improving his defense, Wiggins has a real shot to stick as a rotation player. But it’s going to take a year-plus of development before he can play that role. Advertisement Hollinger’s team fit : Wiggins was one of the best players at the G League Elite camp and was halfway decent at his subsequent invite to the combine. He needs to improve as a shooter and playmaker, but he may be able to defend enough to get himself on the court. The draft is pretty light on guards at this point, but if the Thunder didn’t like my guy Henry I think they might have tried taking a look at Joel Ayayi. Hollinger would have picked: Ayayi 56. Charlotte Hornets Scottie Lewis | 6-5 wing | 21 years old | Florida Vecenie’s Ranking: 77 The proposition is simple: Do you think you can be the coaching staff that unlocks Lewis’ shooting ability? Or do you think he simply doesn’t have enough touch to shoot? If you think the answer is yes, then it’s worth giving Lewis a two-way contract and continuing down that pathway. The wing position remains the most important in the league from a depth perspective, which means Lewis should have ample opportunity over the next few years to prove that he can work toward being enough of a shooter to take advantage of his genuinely high-level defensive gifts. And seriously, his personality is so positive. If there is a person to buy into, it’s him. He’s a pure energy giver. You want this guy around your team. But if you don’t think he can shoot at any point, then he’s a clear Exhibit 10 guy. Hollinger’s team fit: The idea is that if you just get Lewis to shoot you have yourself a player, but I think Lewis’s problems go deeper than just shooting. This isn’t a Herb Jones situation; Lewis’s overall offensive game is considerably weaker. His combine performance was pretty wretched and he had a tough year at Florida, so I was surprised to see him get picked. Again, Henry or Ayayi would have been a better pick from the guard crop. Hollinger would have picked: Henry or Ayayi 57. Charlotte Hornets (reportedly traded to Pistons) Balsa Koprivica | 7-1 center | 21 years old | Florida State Vecenie’s Ranking: Outside top 110 Koprivica is big. He is definitely tall at 7-foot-1 in shoes, and he has enormous hands that he uses to catch and finish. He’s a pretty good shot blocker from the weak-side, but not quite strong enough to be a primary rim protector. He’s not overly athletic, doesn’t really have any skill outside of three feet away from the rim, doesn’t rebound well on the defensive end, doesn’t pass well. He showed absolutely nothing of value at the G League Elite Camp, and I’m not sure there is really anything here outside of “tall with big hands.” I’m not sure he was actually good enough to play at Florida State, let alone in the NBA. I’m at a loss that he was selected. Advertisement Hollinger’s team fit: I’m at a loss. Koprovica played at the G League Elite camp and was brutally awful, and there was really nothing in his track record at Florida State that indicated NBA draftability. He is 7-foot-1 and has a passport (although he’s from Florida) which means he could be stashed overseas, but that’s about all the upside I see here. He wasn’t even the best Florida State player on my board (RaiQuan Gray). Hollinger would have picked… Gray. 58. New York Knicks Jericho Sims | 6-10 big | 22 years old, senior | Texas Vecenie’s Ranking: 46 Sims does a lot of things really well that translate to the NBA as a paint protector, potential switch defender and finisher. Coaches probably wouldn’t be opposed to getting him on the floor sooner rather than later because he’s really good in a variety of settings on defense. He’s not going to be anything more than a backup center because he’s not quite well-rounded enough to be a starter. But he might be versatile enough on defense and good enough at his one thing on offense to make it work. Hollinger’s team fit: Strong late pick here. New York needed a big with size and gets it way late in the second round with Sims. He’s never going to be anything more than a limited backup, but he can fill that role as a high-flying rim runner and a capable defender who can switch onto guards. He was the best center left on my board and I thought he would go 15 spots higher. Hollinger would have picked… Sims 59. Brooklyn Nets RaiQuan Gray | 6-8 forward | 21 years old | Florida State Vecenie’s Ranking: 62 This completely comes down to what teams think of Gray when interviewing him. Do they believe he will get into shape and do the right things for his frame? Or will it stay more in the vein of what it was at the combine and the first two years he played at Florida State? That guy, then, was not an NBA player. The guy we all saw during his redshirt junior season has a chance to be an extremely effective modern NBA big who can defend, pass and play a really important role. If he takes things seriously, improves the shot and gets down to about 250 pounds, he’s an NBA player. He processes the game really well, plays unselfishly and has the kind of ball skills that teams look for from playmaking bigs. If he doesn’t, he’ll be playing elsewhere for his career. Advertisement Hollinger’s team fit: I like this pick much better than the Nets’ last one! Gray is overweight and can’t shoot, but there is some real potential here if he gets in shape and straightens out his release. He has a big body, can move his feet, handle the ball and knows how to play. The fact that he was a good college player despite having no outside shot and being probably 20 pounds overweight is indicative of greater potential if he can get those things straightened out. That’s certainly worth a shot at this point in the draft. Hollinger would have picked… Gray 60. Indiana Pacers (reportedly traded to Bucks) Georgios Kalaitzakis | 6-7 wing | 22 years old | Panathinaikos Vecenie’s Ranking: 101 Interesting player! He’s a 6-foot-7 ballhandler out of Greece who had a great reputation as a teenager but has never quite developed in the way that evaluators had hoped. He can handle the ball and make passes as something of a point forward, but he hasn’t been able to establish himself as a true rotation guy yet because he can’t really shoot and makes some wild decisions whenever he has the ball. He’s a pure stash pick for the Bucks. Hollinger’s team fit: Opa! The Bucks close out the draft by selecting a Greek guy, which based on past history is a tremendous move. I saw Kalaitzakis at a youth tournament three years ago and was impressed by his quickness and slashing ability at 6-7, but his career has really stalled out since then because he can’t shoot and is too turnover prone. He’s likely a long-term stash that we won’t be seeing on this side of the pond any time soon. Hollinger would have picked… BGA: Best Greek Available (Top design: Wes McCabe/The Athletic; Getty Images) National Boxing Bundesliga Champions League Championship College Football College Sports Copa America Copa del Rey Culture Europa League European Championship FA Cup Fantasy Baseball Fantasy Basketball Fantasy Football Fantasy Hockey Fantasy Premier League FIFA Club World Cup Formula 1 Gaming Global Sports Golf International Football La Liga League Cup League One League Two LNH Memorabilia & Collectibles Men's College Basketball Men's World Cup Mixed Martial Arts MLB MLS Motorsports NASCAR NBA NFL NHL NWSL Olympics Opinion Peak Premier League Scottish Premiership Serie A Soccer Sports Betting Sports Business Tennis Top Sports News UK Women's Football WNBA Women's College Basketball Women's Euros Women's Hockey Women's World Cup The Athletic Ink Podcasts Headlines US Arizona Atlanta Baltimore Bay Area Boston Buffalo Carolina Chicago Cincinnati Cleveland Columbus Dallas Denver Detroit Houston Indiana Jacksonville Kansas City Las Vegas Los Angeles Memphis Miami Minnesota Nashville New Orleans New York Oklahoma Oregon Orlando Philadelphia Pittsburgh Sacramento San Antonio San Diego Seattle St. Louis Tampa Bay Utah Washington DC Wisconsin Canada Calgary Edmonton Montreal Montréal (français) Ottawa Toronto Vancouver Winnipeg Partners Collectibles by eBay Odds by BetMGM Streaming by Fubo Tickets by StubHub Subscribe Start Subscription Group Subscriptions HQ About Us Careers Code of Conduct Editorial Guidelines Business Inquiries Press Inquiries Support FAQ Forgot Password? Contact Us Terms of Service Newsletters The Pulse The Bounce The Windup Prime Tire Full Time Until Saturday Scoop City The Athletic FC MoneyCall Red Light © 2025 The Athletic Media Company, A New York Times Company Privacy Policy Your Ad Choices Support Sitemap