Angelique Kerber Defeats Serena Williams at 2018 Wimbledon Women’s Final | Vogue Skip to main content Search Search Fashion Beauty Culture Living Weddings Runway Shopping Chevron Video Vogue Club PhotoVogue Met Gala Fashion Beauty Culture Living Weddings Runway More Chevron Open Navigation Menu Menu Wimbledon Angelique Kerber Defeats Serena Williams at Wimbledon Women’s Final By Christian Allaire July 14, 2018 Photo: AP Images Save this story Save Save this story Save In a much-anticipated match at Wimbledon today, Germany’s Angelique Kerber defeated Serena Williams in the women’s single final. The short, two-set match lead to a shocking upset, and a 6-3 6-3 victory for Kerber. She is the first German to win Wimbledon since Steffi Graf. Kerber, an 11th seed and former number one player, has won two Grand Slam titles to date, both in 2016. That year, she won both the Australian and U.S. Opens, and placed as a runner-up at Wimbledon (she had played Williams in both the Australian and Wimbledon finals). She knew she had a tough opponent once again today. “[Serena is] such an amazing person, and congratulations again for coming back,” Kerber said after the match. “I knew I had to play my best tennis against a champion like Serena. I loved every second playing in front of you guys.” “To all the moms out there, I was playing for you today,” Williams said . “It was such an amazing tournament for me. I was really happy to get this far. It’s obviously disappointing but I can’t be disappointed. I’m literally just getting started,” she added . Meanwhile, Williams, a seven-time Wimbledon champion, was chasing history at today’s match. With 23 Grand Slam titles under her belt, she was attempting to tie Australian player Margaret Court’s record of 24 Grand Slams. “I absolutely want more Grand Slams,” Williams told Vogue in her February cover story . “I’m well aware of the record books, unfortunately. It’s not a secret that I have my sights on 25.” Williams won her last Grand Slam title at the 2017 Australian Open while about eight weeks pregnant. Following the birth of her first child, daughter Alexis Olympia Ohanian, Jr., Williams endured a series of complications that lead to an absence year from the field. In May this year, she returned from her maternity leave to compete in the Miami Open, but lost in the first round against Naomi Osaka. Christian Allaire is the Senior Fashion and Style Writer at Vogue , where he covers celebrity style, red carpet fashion, trends, emerging designers, and more. He is particularly passionate about championing Indigenous stories and artists—a niche that reflects his own Ojibwe heritage, hailing from Nipissing First Nation in Canada. He regularly ... Read more Instagram Topics World of Wimbledon Serena Williams Read More Celebrity Style Jennifer Lawrence Finds an Anti-Sneaker Comfort Shoe By Christian Allaire Magazine “You Make Clothes for Them? They Will Do Anything For You”: Tina Knowles Remembers Beyoncé and Solange’s Beloved Uncle Johnny By Tina Knowles Nails 9 Summer Nail Colors For Every Occasion By Audrey Noble Music Happy Birthday, Barbra Streisand! 35 Vintage Pictures of the Original Funny Girl By Marley Marius Makeup Cherry Blossom Blush is Summer’s Prettiest Makeup Trend By María Munsuri Royals Meghan Markle Brings Montecito Style to New York By Hannah Jackson The latest fashion news, beauty coverage, celebrity style, fashion week updates, culture reviews, and videos on Vogue.com. Facebook X Pinterest Instagram Tiktok More from Vogue Newsletter Manage Account Verify Subscription Contact us About Vogue Careers Projects Vogue Archive Forces of Fashion Vogue College of Fashion See More Stories Fashion Beauty Culture Living Runway Shopping Magazine Gift Guides Best of Sale User Agreement Privacy Policy Your California Privacy Rights Accessibility Help Masthead Visual Stories © 2025 Condé Nast. All rights reserved. Vogue may earn a portion of sales from products that are purchased through our site as part of our Affiliate Partnerships with retailers. The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Condé Nast. Ad Choices CN Fashion & Beauty Select international site United States LargeChevron Adria Arabia Australia Brasil Britain China Czechoslovakia España France Germany Greece Hong Kong India Italia Japan Korea México Nederland Philippines Polska Portugal Scandinavia Singapore Taiwan Thailand Türkiye Ukraine