Neilnail | Xenoblade Wiki | Fandom Start a Wiki Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In Xenoblade Wiki Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts Series Xenoblade Characters Places Items Gameplay Enemies Xenoblade 3D Definitive Edition Future Connected Xenoblade X Characters Places Items Gameplay Enemies Definitive Edition Xenoblade 2 Characters Places Items Gameplay Enemies Torna ~ The Golden Country Xenoblade 3 Characters Places Items Gameplay Enemies Future Redeemed Community Help Beginner Tutorial Code of Conduct FAQ Manual of Style Community Decisions Contact Admin Special Pages Wanted Pages Upload Photos Category List Stubs Achievements Leaderboard Recent Blog Posts Top Users Heroponsupert20 SakuDio WiseAdventurer NDS123 Catja Xolimpha UnknownUsename Affiliates Xenosaga Wiki Baten Kaitos Wiki Last Story Wiki Pandora's Tower Wiki Sign In Don't have an account? Register Sign In Explore Fan Central Current Skip to content Xenoblade Wiki 24,638 pages Explore Main Page Discuss All Pages Community Interactive Maps Recent Blog Posts Series Xenoblade Characters Places Items Gameplay Enemies Xenoblade 3D Definitive Edition Future Connected Xenoblade X Characters Places Items Gameplay Enemies Definitive Edition Xenoblade 2 Characters Places Items Gameplay Enemies Torna ~ The Golden Country Xenoblade 3 Characters Places Items Gameplay Enemies Future Redeemed Community Help Beginner Tutorial Code of Conduct FAQ Manual of Style Community Decisions Contact Admin Special Pages Wanted Pages Upload Photos Category List Stubs Achievements Leaderboard Recent Blog Posts Top Users Heroponsupert20 SakuDio WiseAdventurer NDS123 Catja Xolimpha UnknownUsename Affiliates Xenosaga Wiki Baten Kaitos Wiki Last Story Wiki Pandora's Tower Wiki in: Pages with spoilers , XCX stubs , XCXDE Qlurians , and 3 more XCXDE Playable Characters Neilnail Pages needing plot info Neilnail Sign in to edit History Purge Talk (0) The future doesn't belong to you! For those who have not completed games in the Xenoblade Chronicles series , this page contains spoilers regarding the plot. Discretion is advised. Neilnail Neilnail in Xenoblade Chronicles X: Definitive Edition Alias Neil Race Qlurian Gender Female Age 28 Hair color White Eye color Red Occupation Cosmoarchaeologist High Custodian Class Full Metal Jaguar+ Signature Arts Conduction Rise Heroic Tale (Psycho Launchers) Normal Hangout Commercial District Connections Cross Celica Voice Actor (EN) Erin Yvette Voice Actor (JP) Yōko Hikasa Appearances Artbook of Xenoblade Chronicles X (Concept art) Xenoblade Chronicles X: Definitive Edition " Humans really are resilient. I have a lot to learn from you... " — Neinail Neilnail (Japanese: ニール・ネール , Nīru Nēru , Neil Nail; English dub : /niːlˈneɪl/ ), or simply Neil ( English dub : /ˈniːl/ ), is a recruitable character in Xenoblade Chronicles X: Definitive Edition [ 1 ] . She is a Qlurian who seemingly has a connection with the Neilnail Albus and Neilnail Furvus Skells . She is an archaeologist focusing on the study of alien civilizations, and is particularly interested in the culture of the people of Earth [ 2 ] . Contents 1 Story 1.1 Main Story 2 Gameplay 2.1 Location 2.2 Recruitment 2.3 In battle 2.4 Heart-to-Hearts 3 Notes 4 Miran Archives 4.1 Neilnail 4.2 Neilnail (High Custodian) 5 Quotes 5.1 Post-battle dialogue 5.2 Adding-to-party dialogue 6 Trivia 7 Gallery 8 References Story [ ] Main Story [ ] Neilnail appears alongside the party on the Bridge of the White Whale 2 during the briefing before the final mission to defeat Void . Gameplay [ ] Location [ ] When not in the party, Neilnail can be found around East Melville Street in the Commercial District of New Los Angeles . Recruitment [ ] Neilnail can be recruited after completing The Qlurian Archaeologist . In battle [ ] Neilnail's Class is Full Metal Jaguar+ . When she is first recruited, she is level 22 and rank 3. She wields Dual Swords and Psycho Launchers . Her two Signature Arts are Conduction Rise (Psycho Launchers) and Heroic Tale (Psycho Launchers). Neilnail has four Skill slots. Her class progression is as follows: Class Rank Arts Skills 1 Back Slash Jetstream — 2 Side Slash — 3 Lightning Cloak — 4 Shadowrunner — 5 Stellar Ray — 6 Blood Sacrifice — 7 Shooting Star Ether Boost 8 Hundred Shells — 9 Conduction Rise Aura Assault 10 Upper Hand — 11 Astral Protection Knight's Soul 12 Electric Surge — 13 Heroic Tale Supreme Sword 14 Starlight Kick Buff Extender 15 Thirsty Edge Buff Heal 16 — Inner Search 17 — Fast Forward 18 — - Heart-to-Hearts [ ] The following heart-to-hearts between Neil and Cross are: Affinity Name Location When Reqs ♥ Earthology Division Drive Anytime — ♥♥♥ Getting Qlued In Barista Court Anytime — ♥♥♥♥♥ Special Lecture BLADE Concourse Anytime The Custodian's Duty Notes [ ] In Xenoblade X: The Secret File , designs for Neilnail intended for the original release of Xenoblade Chronicles X were shown. It also revealed that the Neilnail Skells were of Qlurian origin. Miran Archives [ ] Neilnail [ ] "A Qlurian archaeologist studying xenoform civilizations. Her warm, affable nature makes her easy to get along with. As a scholar, she is curious to learn about human customs." Neilnail (High Custodian) [ ] "The High Custodian, who sits at the top of the Qlurian social hierarchy. Talked with investigating and—if it be deemed necessary—destroying the remnants of alien civilizations that once received the gift of her Qlurian ancestors' hyper-advanced technology." Quotes [ ] Post-battle dialogue [ ] Party member Celica Neilnail - "Celica, are you alright? You're not hurt, are you? Oh, my poor, sweet Celica..." Celica - "(laughing) Lady Neil... you jest!" Elma Neilnail - "Elma, your subordinates are really quite exceptional. Do you mind if I take one as my assistant?" Elma - "Headhunting, are we? I'd better watch you don't snap up my whole team." Hope Neilnail - "I hear faith was also a driving force on Earth. Want to compare gods sometime?" Hope - "Uh, yes, of course. But you might want to work on your wording a little." L Neilnail - "Technology makes sense of the present by examining the past. After all, the cart doesn't fall too far from the horse." L - "Hey, but that's our-No, never mind." Nagi Nagi - "The opportunity to foster relations with a Qlu is a welcome one." Neilnail - "We're actually quite similar in more ways than you'd think." Ga Jiarg Ga Jiarg - "I heard you were a scholar, yet a warrior's heart also beats in your chest, High Custodian." Neilnail - "Praise from the Wrothian prince. Now that is an honor." Adding-to-party dialogue [ ] Instance Greeting Accept Refuse After Chapter 12 "I've been able to make some human friends lately, and I'm starting to really feel accepted here in NLA. And you made it possible. I'll never forget the kindness that you showed me. ...So, how about that adventure?" "Good, good! You won't regret it, I promise." "Well, watch yourself out there! And whatever you need, I hope you get it." After Chapter 13 (Act 1) "Elma's told me everything. You have my full, unreserved, undying support. This is not just a problem for humans. I want to do all that's in my power to help you." "Yeah, okay. We'll figure this out together, you'll see." "When faced with the unknown, it pays to think things through with a clear head. ...Please, look after yourself." Trivia [ ] Neilnail's Japanese voice actress, Yōko Hikasa, also voices Newt in Xenoblade Chronicles 2 . Gallery [ ] Official Artwork Xenoblade Chronicles X: Definitive Edition Release Celebration Artwork Concept art Concept art of Neilnail Neilnail and Celica making a request of the player Neilnail and Cross facing off against Neilnail Albus and Neilnail Furvis References [ ] ↑ https://www.nintendo.com/jp/topics/article/affcb913-bad5-485e-ad4e-ad9b4d5ee26c ↑ https://x.com/NintendoAmerica/status/1894765009885896946 Characters in Xenoblade Chronicles X Playable Characters Cross · Doug · Elma · Gwin · Irina · L · Lao · Lin Recruitable Characters Alexa · Bozé · Celica · Frye · H.B. · Hope · Mia · Murderess · Nagi · Phog · Yelv (DE) Al · Ga Jiarg · Liesel · Neilnail Supporting Characters Eleonora · Ga Buidhe · Ga Jiarg · Marcus · Maurice · Rock · Tatsu · Vandham Antagonists Dagahn · Goetia · Luxaar · Ryyz · Void This article about Xenoblade Chronicles X is a stub . You can help the Xenoblade Wiki by expanding it . Categories Categories : Pages with spoilers XCX stubs XCXDE Qlurians XCXDE Playable Characters Neilnail Pages needing plot info Community content is available under CC-BY-SA unless otherwise noted. More Fandoms Fantasy Sci-fi Xenoblade Explore properties Fandom Muthead Fanatical Follow Us Overview What is Fandom? About Careers Press Contact Terms of Use Privacy Policy Digital Services Act Global Sitemap Local Sitemap Community Community Central Support Help Advertise Media Kit Contact Fandom Apps Take your favorite fandoms with you and never miss a beat. Xenoblade Wiki is a FANDOM Games Community. View Mobile Site Follow on IG TikTok Join Fan Lab