Sandra Douglass Morgan and Kristi Coleman make history as NFL's two female presidents Skip to main content Primary nav News Multimedia Photos Team Draft Schedule Allegiant Stadium Raiderettes Community History Promotions Fans Fit Raiders Foundation Español Connect With Us TICKETS SHOP Search Open menu button Action related nav Watch Tickets Shop My Account LIVE NFL GAMES Raiders News Transactions Press Releases Mailbag Press Coverage Longform Raiders en Español History Content Sites Media Guide Founding Partners of Allegiant Stadium Advertising Sandra Douglass Morgan and Kristi Coleman make history as NFL's two female presidents Sep 22, 2024 at 12:01 PM Rachel Gossen Digital Managing Editor Copied! Sunday's Raiders-Panthers matchup marked the first game in NFL history between two teams with female presidents. Sandra Douglass Morgan and Kristi Coleman met up pregame to commemorate the historic moment with a game ball exchange. "Kristi has been a great colleague and friend, so to be able to share this moment with her makes it all the more special," Douglass Morgan said. "Although we're here to win the game and do what we do and do our jobs every single day, it is monumental that we have two female presidents at the helm. It's great to be able to celebrate each other pregame." Both women were hired by their respective teams in 2022 – Douglass Morgan was named the Raiders president in July of 2022, while Coleman was named Panthers president in February of 2022. They have gotten to know each other well over the two seasons in their roles, with Douglass Morgan even joining Coleman for the Panthers' International Women's Day celebration back in 2023. "You do feel a little bit more comfortable when you have someone else you can call," Coleman said via the Panthers . "While Charlotte and Vegas are obviously two very different markets, the role and what you're having to do isn't different. A lot of the things we do and nuances that we experience are the same." According to The Institute for Diversity and Ethics in Sport , women in a professional staff position at the team level made up an all-time high 36.3% in 2023 – a number both Douglass Morgan and Coleman hope to continue to see grow. "We both have been pretty open that in order to be it, sometimes you have to see it," Douglass Morgan said. "If anyone, a young woman, a young boy, anyone sees us and says, 'OK, I can do this. I can lead a team,' I think that's an incredible thing and again, I'm proud to share this moment with her." Pregame sights from Week 3 vs. Panthers Take a look inside Allegiant Stadium as the Raiders prepare for their Week 3 matchup against the Carolina Panthers. 1 / 104 The locker room prior to the Las Vegas Raiders' arrival for their regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Michael Clemens/Las Vegas Raiders 2 / 104 The locker room prior to the Las Vegas Raiders' arrival for their regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Michael Clemens/Las Vegas Raiders 3 / 104 The locker room prior to the Las Vegas Raiders' arrival for their regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Michael Clemens/Las Vegas Raiders 4 / 104 The locker room prior to the Las Vegas Raiders' arrival for their regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Michael Clemens/Las Vegas Raiders 5 / 104 The locker room prior to the Las Vegas Raiders' arrival for their regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Michael Clemens/Las Vegas Raiders 6 / 104 The locker room prior to the Las Vegas Raiders' arrival for their regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Michael Clemens/Las Vegas Raiders 7 / 104 The locker room prior to the Las Vegas Raiders' arrival for their regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Michael Clemens/Las Vegas Raiders 8 / 104 The locker room prior to the Las Vegas Raiders' arrival for their regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Michael Clemens/Las Vegas Raiders 9 / 104 The locker room prior to the Las Vegas Raiders' arrival for their regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Michael Clemens/Las Vegas Raiders 10 / 104 The locker room prior to the Las Vegas Raiders' arrival for their regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Michael Clemens/Las Vegas Raiders 11 / 104 The locker room prior to the Las Vegas Raiders' arrival for their regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Michael Clemens/Las Vegas Raiders 12 / 104 The locker room prior to the Las Vegas Raiders' arrival for their regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Michael Clemens/Las Vegas Raiders 13 / 104 The locker room prior to the Las Vegas Raiders' arrival for their regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Michael Clemens/Las Vegas Raiders 14 / 104 The locker room prior to the Las Vegas Raiders' arrival for their regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Michael Clemens/Las Vegas Raiders 15 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders defensive tackle Christian Wilkins (94) arrives to the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Matt Aguirre/Las Vegas Raiders 16 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders linebacker Luke Masterson (59) arrives to the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Michael Clemens/Las Vegas Raiders 17 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders safety Marcus Epps (1) arrives to the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Michael Clemens/Las Vegas Raiders 18 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders tight end Michael Mayer (87) arrives to the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Matt Aguirre/Las Vegas Raiders 19 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders cornerback Decamerion Richardson (25) arrives to the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Michael Clemens/Las Vegas Raiders 20 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders defensive end Maxx Crosby (98) arrives to the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Michael Clemens/Las Vegas Raiders 21 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders kicker Daniel Carlson (2) arrives to the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Michael Clemens/Las Vegas Raiders 22 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders running back Dylan Laube (23) arrives to the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Matt Aguirre/Las Vegas Raiders 23 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders tight end Brock Bowers (89) arrives to the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Matt Aguirre/Las Vegas Raiders 24 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders cornerbacks coach Ricky Manning Jr. arrives to the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Michael Clemens/Las Vegas Raiders 25 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders defensive lineman Adam Butler (69) arrives to the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Michael Clemens/Las Vegas Raiders 26 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders defensive end Janarius Robinson (97) arrives to the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Michael Clemens/Las Vegas Raiders 27 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders quarterback Gardner Minshew II (15) arrives to the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Matt Aguirre/Las Vegas Raiders 28 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders running back Ameer Abdullah (8) arrives to the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Matt Aguirre/Las Vegas Raiders 29 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders running back Zamir White (3) arrives to the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Matt Aguirre/Las Vegas Raiders 30 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders Head Coach Antonio Pierce arrives to the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Michael Clemens/Las Vegas Raiders 31 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders safety Isaiah Pola-Mao (20) arrives to the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Michael Clemens/Las Vegas Raiders 32 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders defensive end Tyree Wilson (9) arrives to the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Michael Clemens/Las Vegas Raiders 33 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders center Andre James (68) arrives to the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Michael Clemens/Las Vegas Raiders 34 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders running back Alexander Mattison (22) arrives to the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Matt Aguirre/Las Vegas Raiders 35 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders wide receiver Ramel Keyton (82) arrives to the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Michael Clemens/Las Vegas Raiders 36 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders cornerback Jakorian Bennett (0) arrives to the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Michael Clemens/Las Vegas Raiders 37 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders defensive end Charles Snowden (49) arrives to the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Michael Clemens/Las Vegas Raiders 38 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders defensive tackle John Jenkins (95) arrives to the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Michael Clemens/Las Vegas Raiders 39 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders wide receiver Davante Adams (17) arrives to the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Matt Aguirre/Las Vegas Raiders 40 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders wide receiver DJ Turner (19) arrives to the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Matt Aguirre/Las Vegas Raiders 41 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders Assistant General Manager Champ Kelly arrives to the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Michael Clemens/Las Vegas Raiders 42 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders cornerback Nate Hobbs (39) arrives to the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Michael Clemens/Las Vegas Raiders 43 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders safety Tre'von Moehrig (7) arrives to the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Michael Clemens/Las Vegas Raiders 44 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders cornerback Jack Jones (18) warming up before the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Michael Clemens/Las Vegas Raiders 45 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders wide receiver Tre Tucker (11) warming up before the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Matt Aguirre/Las Vegas Raiders 46 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders running back Dylan Laube (23) warming up before the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Matt Aguirre/Las Vegas Raiders 47 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders President Sandra Douglass Morgan and Carolina Panthers President Kristi Coleman before the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Michael Clemens/Las Vegas Raiders 48 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders defensive tackle Christian Wilkins (94) warming up before the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Michael Clemens/Las Vegas Raiders 49 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders center Andre James (68) warming up before the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Matt Aguirre/Las Vegas Raiders 50 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders guard Dylan Parham (66) warming up before the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Matt Aguirre/Las Vegas Raiders 51 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders guard Jackson Powers-Johnson (58) warming up before the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Michael Clemens/Las Vegas Raiders 52 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders defensive tackle Jonah Laulu (96) warming up before the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Matt Aguirre/Las Vegas Raiders 53 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders cornerback Jakorian Bennett (0) warming up before the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Michael Clemens/Las Vegas Raiders 54 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders defensive end Maxx Crosby (98) warming up before the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Michael Clemens/Las Vegas Raiders 55 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders defensive tackle John Jenkins (95) warming up before the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Michael Clemens/Las Vegas Raiders 56 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders defensive end Tyree Wilson (9) warming up before the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Michael Clemens/Las Vegas Raiders 57 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders defensive end Maxx Crosby (98) warming up before the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Michael Clemens/Las Vegas Raiders 58 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders wide receiver Jakobi Meyers (16) warming up before the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Michael Clemens/Las Vegas Raiders 59 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders kicker Daniel Carlson (2) warming up before the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Michael Clemens/Las Vegas Raiders 60 / 104 Fans before the Las Vegas Raiders' regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Michael Clemens/Las Vegas Raiders 61 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders quarterback Gardner Minshew II (15) warming up before the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Matt Aguirre/Las Vegas Raiders 62 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders running back Zamir White (3) warming up before the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Michael Clemens/Las Vegas Raiders 63 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders Owner Mark Davis before the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Matt Aguirre/Las Vegas Raiders 64 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders running back Alexander Mattison (22) warming up before the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Michael Clemens/Las Vegas Raiders 65 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders running back Ameer Abdullah (8) warming up before the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Michael Clemens/Las Vegas Raiders 66 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders quarterback Gardner Minshew II (15) warming up before the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Matt Aguirre/Las Vegas Raiders 67 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders wide receiver Davante Adams (17) warming up before the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Michael Clemens/Las Vegas Raiders 68 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders guard Jackson Powers-Johnson (58) warming up before the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Michael Clemens/Las Vegas Raiders 69 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders safety Tre'von Moehrig (7) warming up before the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Matt Aguirre/Las Vegas Raiders 70 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders running back Zamir White (3) warming up before the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Michael Clemens/Las Vegas Raiders 71 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders Head Coach Antonio Pierce and wide receiver Davante Adams (17) before the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Matt Aguirre/Las Vegas Raiders 72 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders defensive tackle Christian Wilkins (94) warming up before the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Michael Clemens/Las Vegas Raiders 73 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders defensive end Janarius Robinson (97) warming up before the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Michael Clemens/Las Vegas Raiders 74 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders defensive end Maxx Crosby (98) and Head Coach Antonio Pierce before the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Michael Clemens/Las Vegas Raiders 75 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders Head Coach Antonio Pierce before the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Michael Clemens/Las Vegas Raiders 76 / 104 The Las Vegas Raiders huddle before the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Matt Aguirre/Las Vegas Raiders 77 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders tight end Brock Bowers (89) warming up before the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Matt Aguirre/Las Vegas Raiders 78 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders quarterback Gardner Minshew II (15) warming up before the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Matt Aguirre/Las Vegas Raiders 79 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders tackle Thayer Munford Jr. (77) warming up before the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Matt Aguirre/Las Vegas Raiders 80 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders defensive end Maxx Crosby (98) and alumnus Marshawn Lynch before the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Michael Clemens/Las Vegas Raiders 81 / 104 The Las Vegas Raiders special teams unit huddles before the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Michael Clemens/Las Vegas Raiders 82 / 104 The Las Vegas Raiders defense waits to be introduced onto the field before the  regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Michael Clemens/Las Vegas Raiders 83 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders defensive end Maxx Crosby (98) as the team is introduced onto the field before their regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Michael Clemens/Las Vegas Raiders 84 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders defensive tackle Jonah Laulu (96) as the team is introduced onto the field before their regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Michael Clemens/Las Vegas Raiders 85 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders safety Isaiah Pola-Mao (20) as the team is introduced onto the field before their regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Michael Clemens/Las Vegas Raiders 86 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders quarterback Aidan O'Connell (12) as the team is introduced onto the field before their regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Michael Clemens/Las Vegas Raiders 87 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders tackle Thayer Munford Jr. (77) is introduced onto the field before the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Matt Aguirre/Las Vegas Raiders 88 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders tight end Michael Mayer (87) is introduced onto the field before the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Matt Aguirre/Las Vegas Raiders 89 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders center Andre James (68) is introduced onto the field before the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Michael Clemens/Las Vegas Raiders 90 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders tight end Brock Bowers (89) is introduced onto the field before the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Matt Aguirre/Las Vegas Raiders 91 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders tackle Kolton Miller (74) is introduced onto the field before the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Michael Clemens/Las Vegas Raiders 92 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders tight end Michael Mayer (87) is introduced onto the field before the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Michael Clemens/Las Vegas Raiders 93 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders running back Zamir White (3) is introduced onto the field before the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Michael Clemens/Las Vegas Raiders 94 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders wide receiver Jakobi Meyers (16) is introduced onto the field before the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Michael Clemens/Las Vegas Raiders 95 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders wide receiver Davante Adams (17) is introduced onto the field before the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Matt Aguirre/Las Vegas Raiders 96 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders quarterback Gardner Minshew II (15) is introduced onto the field before the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Michael Clemens/Las Vegas Raiders 97 / 104 Singer Judith Hill performs the national anthem before the Las Vegas Raiders' regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Michael Clemens/Las Vegas Raiders 98 / 104 Singer Judith Hill performs the national anthem before the Las Vegas Raiders' regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Michael Clemens/Las Vegas Raiders 99 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders tackle Kolton Miller (74) during the national anthem before the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Matt Aguirre/Las Vegas Raiders 100 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders linebacker Amari Gainer (53) and linebacker Robert Spillane (41) during the national anthem before the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Matt Aguirre/Las Vegas Raiders 101 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders punter AJ Cole (6), linebacker Robert Spillane (41) and defensive end Maxx Crosby (98) on the sidelines before the coin toss at the regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Matt Aguirre/Las Vegas Raiders 102 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders alumnus Terry Robiskie lights the Al Davis Memorial Torch before the Las Vegas Raiders' regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Jazmyn Le 103 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders alumnus Terry Robiskie signs the Al Davis Memorial torch before the Las Vegas Raiders' regular season home game against the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Jazmyn Le/Las Vegas Raiders 104 / 104 Las Vegas Raiders punter AJ Cole (6), linebacker Robert Spillane (41), defensive end Maxx Crosby (98) and quarterback Gardner Minshew II (15) walk out to the center of the field for the coin toss before the regular season home game against the the Carolina Panthers at Allegiant Stadium. Matt Aguirre/Las Vegas Raiders Advertising This Ad will close in 3 Related Content news Raiders make concerted effort to add depth to the trenches through the 2025 Draft Spending draft capital on offensive and defensive linemen was a necessity for Raiders in later rounds. news Rhett Lewis: Analyzing the Raiders' 2025 draft class NFL Network and Raiders.com contributor Rhett Lewis breaks down each of the Silver and Black's 2025 draft selections and how they fit in on the roster. news What They're Saying: NFL media members hand out draft grades John Spytek and staff received strong reviews following his first draft as Raiders general manager. news Directiva de Raiders 'contenta' con el trabajo hecho en el draft 2025 Tras el trabajo arduo de evaluación de prospectos, la nueva directiva de Las Vegas vive su primer draft con el equipo del que salieron con once nuevos jugadores. Latest Content audio John Spytek breaks down the Raiders' 2025 draft class | UFR Apr 29, 2025 General Manager John Spytek added 11 new Raiders through the 2025 NFL Draft—and he's looking for them to compete and push the roster forward. gallery Offseason Program: Tuesday 4.29.25 Apr 29, 2025 Head inside Intermountain Health Performance Center to see photos of the Las Vegas Raiders during an offseason program workout. news Raiders make concerted effort to add depth to the trenches through the 2025 Draft Apr 29, 2025 Spending draft capital on offensive and defensive linemen was a necessity for Raiders in later rounds. gallery Photos: Raiders host youth football combine Apr 29, 2025 The Las Vegas Raiders hosted a youth football combine for athletes at Durango High School. news Rhett Lewis: Analyzing the Raiders' 2025 draft class Apr 29, 2025 NFL Network and Raiders.com contributor Rhett Lewis breaks down each of the Silver and Black's 2025 draft selections and how they fit in on the roster. gallery Photos: The Raiders' 2025 Draft Class Apr 29, 2025 Check out photos of all eleven of the Silver and Black's newest rookies. gallery Offseason Program: Monday 4.28.25 Apr 28, 2025 As the Raiders head into phase two of their offseason program, view photos from a workout at Intermountain Health Performance Center. news What They're Saying: NFL media members hand out draft grades Apr 28, 2025 John Spytek and staff received strong reviews following his first draft as Raiders general manager. news Directiva de Raiders 'contenta' con el trabajo hecho en el draft 2025 Apr 28, 2025 Tras el trabajo arduo de evaluación de prospectos, la nueva directiva de Las Vegas vive su primer draft con el equipo del que salieron con once nuevos jugadores. news Two picks apart, Tommy Mellott and Cam Miller become Raiders after battling in multiple FCS Championship games Apr 28, 2025 With an expected position change, Mellott will be catching passes from North Dakota State's quarterback that's defeated him in three FCS playoff games. audio Ashton Jeanty wants Raider Nation to get their popcorn ready | UFR Apr 27, 2025 The Raiders' first-round pick out of Boise State is ready to put on a show in Silver and Black. video John Spytek and Brandon Yeargan recap 2025 NFL Draft: 'The competitiveness of this group is unique' Apr 26, 2025 General Manager John Spytek and Director of College Scouting Brandon Yeargan address the media to recap the 2025 NFL Draft. View All Advertising Club Links Club Links About The Raiders Career Opportunities Administration Accessibility Contact Us Privacy Policy Site Map TEAM Roster Depth Chart Coaches Statistics Transactions Standings History Draft TICKETS PSL Holders Premium Seating Seating and Pricing Map My Account STADIUM Allegiant Stadium Events & Tickets Plan Your Visit Allegiant Stadium Suites Host An Event Code of Conduct Tours MULTIMEDIA Raiders Podcast Network Game Radio Broadcast Info Raider Nation Radio 920AM TV Network Spanish Radio Gameday Magazines Media Guide FANS Connect With Us Email Newsletter Modelo Tailgate Zone Wallpapers Activities The Raider Image Store Promotions NFL Clubs NFL Clubs AFC North AFC East AFC South AFC West NFC North NFC East NFC South NFC West More NFL Sites More NFL Sites NFL Football Operations NFL Shop NFL On Location Pro Football Hall of Fame Licensing USA Football NFL Extra Points NFL Ticket Exchange Download apps Download Apps ©2025 by the Las Vegas Raiders. All rights reserved. No portion of this site may be reproduced without the express written permission of the Las Vegas Raiders. Legal Privacy Policy Terms of Service Accessibility Ad Choices Your Privacy Choices Cookie Settings Preference Center Big left arrow icon Big right arrow icon Close icon Copy Url Three dots icon Down arrow icon Email icon Email icon Exit Fullscreen icon External link icon Facebook logo Football icon Facebook logo Instagram logo Snapchat logo YouTube logo TikTok logo Spotify logo LinkedIn logo Grid icon Key icon Left arrow icon Link icon Location icon Mail icon Menu icon Open icon Phone icon Play icon Radio icon Rewind icon Right arrow icon Search icon Select icon Selected icon TV icon Up arrow icon User icon Audio icon Add to calendar icon NFC icon AFC icon NFL icon Carousel Icon List View Website Instagram Twitter Facebook Snapchat Shop Icon Profile Overlay Avatar Add Airplay Arrow Left Arrow Right Arrow Up Arrow Down Audio Back 5s Back 10s Back 30s Calendar Chart Check Down Left Right Up Chromecast Off Chromecast On Close Closed Captions Bench Off Bench On Broad Off Broad On Vertical Off Vertical On Comment Dock Done Download Draft Fantasy Filter Forward 5s Forward 10s Forward 30s Full Screen Off Full Screen On Gamepass Games Insights Key Leave Live Combine Draft Fantasy Menu Games Menu Network Menu News Menu Playoffs Menu Pro Bowl Menu Shop Menu Standings Menu Stats Menu Super Bowl Menu Teams Menu Tickets Menu More Horizontal More Vertical My Location Network News Pause play Multiple Players Single Player Playlist Playoffs Pro Bowl Purge Refresh Remove Search Settings Share Android Share Copy URL Share Email Share Facebook Share Instagram Share iOS Share Snapchat Share Twitter Skip Next Skip Previous Standings Star Stats Swap Teams Tickets Video Visibility Off Visibility On Volume Hi Volume Low Volume Medium Volume Mute Warning Website Caret down Caret up At News Play Audio Gallery Promo Chevron right The browser you are using is no longer supported on this site. It is highly recommended that you use the latest versions of a supported browser in order to receive an optimal viewing experience. The following browsers are supported: Chrome, Edge (v80 and later), Firefox and Safari. Got it!