Tesla (TSLA) Q2 2020 earnings results: What Wall Street expects NEWS Tesla SPACEX Elon Musk Shop Connect with us TESLARATI Tesla (TSLA) Q2 2020 earnings results: What Wall Street expects NEWS Tesla hired over 1,000 factory workers for its Semi program in NV: report Elon Musk jokes he will join Mr Beast’s “100 Men vs 1 Gorilla” challenge Big Tesla win? Sec Lutnick says cars with 85% domestic content will face zero tariffs Tesla reveals Semi fleet data, shows off new feature and infrastructure plans Tesla Vehicle Safety Report shows Autopilot is 10x better than humans Tesla Tesla hired over 1,000 factory workers for its Semi program in NV: report Tesla reveals Semi fleet data, shows off new feature and infrastructure plans Tesla Vehicle Safety Report shows Autopilot is 10x better than humans Like it or not, the new Tesla Model Y is a big hit in China Tesla Board member and Airbnb co-founder loads up on TSLA ahead of robotaxi launch SPACEX Starlink nears S Korea launch as satellite internet demand rises Starlink India’s license faces delay due to regulatory requirements SpaceX investment fuels Alphabet’s $8 billion profit surge T-Mobile cuts Starlink Cellular service price, eyes broader access SpaceX’s Starbase nears city status with voter support Elon Musk Tesla reveals Semi fleet data, shows off new feature and infrastructure plans Tesla fends off new attack that will hurt consumers more than anyone else Tesla Takedown group takes victory lap and aims for Starlink and SpaceX Kia gains Tesla Supercharger access and issues a big apology Tesla adds new child protection feature to mobile app Shop News Tesla (TSLA) Q2 2020 earnings results: What Wall Street expects Tesla Gigafactory Nevada battery cell production line (Credit: Super Factories) Share Tweet Published 5 years ago on July 21, 2020 By Simon Alvarez Tesla ( NASDAQ:TSLA ) is poised to hold its second quarter earnings call tomorrow, July 22, 2020 after the markets close. Stakes are high for the electric car maker, especially since the company is coming off three straight quarters of profitability. If Tesla pulls a rabbit out of the hat tomorrow and posts even a little bit of profit, the company could end up qualifying for potential inclusion into the S&P 500 index. Tesla stock has always been polarizing, and this is true for Wall Street analysts as well. Wedbush analyst Dan Ives noted that the electric car maker’s potential S&P 500 inclusion is considered by TSLA bulls as practically inevitable. That being said, Tesla’s past Q2 performance and the ongoing pandemic appears to have encouraged Wall Street to maintain a healthy dose of skepticism towards the company nonetheless. Following are Wall Street’s current estimates for Tesla’s Q2 2020 earnings results. Revenue Wall Street currently expects Tesla to announce revenue of $5.146 billion, which is less than the $5.985 billion that the company reported in the first quarter. Estimize , a crowdsourced platform that aggregates estimates from analysts, executives, fund managers, and academics, is a bit more optimistic, with estimates pointing to revenue of $5.443 billion. Tesla’s revenue may indeed take a hit during the second quarter, and this is in no small part due to the pandemic, which effectively shut down the company’s main production facility in the United States for several weeks. That being said, Tesla is still doing relatively well compared to legacy automakers, being the only one among US carmakers to post a year over year growth in sales this year so far. Advertisement Earnings per share While Tesla is carrying a lot of momentum heading into its second quarter earnings call, Wall Street expects the electric car maker to post a loss of $0.14 per share for Q2 2020. Interestingly enough, Estimize actually expects Tesla to post a small profit of $0.19 per share. This is quite an interesting set of events, as Wall Street and the crowdsourced platform’s consensus are usually in line with each other. All eyes will likely be on Tesla’s Q2 2020 EPS tomorrow since it could determine if the company could qualify for the S&P 500 or not. Ives, for his part, has stated that Wedbush is taking a rather positive stance for the company. “While Street numbers are all over the map and looking for red ink this quarter, we are modeling profitability with the 90k delivery number and ongoing cost cutting “getting Musk & Co. away from the red ink. This quarter is another step forward in the Tesla story as Musk & Co. must deliver to match euphoric Street expectations baked into the stock,” he wrote . Tesla’s fourth-quarter earnings call is expected to be held on Wednesday, July 22, 2020, at 2:30 p.m. Pacific Time (5:30 p.m. ET). Disclosure: I have no ownership in shares of TSLA and have no plans to initiate any positions within 72 hours. Advertisement Related Topics: $TSLA Featured Tesla Up Next Tesla (TSLA) Q2 2020 earnings call: Top 4 things to watch out for Don't Miss Tesla batteries deal another blow to Australia gas plants with record 150MW output Simon Alvarez Simon is an experienced automotive reporter with a passion for electric cars and clean energy. Fascinated by the world envisioned by Elon Musk, he hopes to make it to Mars (at least as a tourist) someday.  For stories or tips--or even to just say a simple hello--send a message to  his email, simon@teslarati.com or his handle on X, @ResidentSponge . Advertisement You may like Tesla hired over 1,000 factory workers for its Semi program in NV: report Big Tesla win? Sec Lutnick says cars with 85% domestic content will face zero tariffs Tesla reveals Semi fleet data, shows off new feature and infrastructure plans Tesla Vehicle Safety Report shows Autopilot is 10x better than humans Like it or not, the new Tesla Model Y is a big hit in China Tesla Board member and Airbnb co-founder loads up on TSLA ahead of robotaxi launch Comments News Tesla hired over 1,000 factory workers for its Semi program in NV: report The update was initially reported by Insider, which cited three people reportedly familiar with the matter. Published 3 hours ago on April 29, 2025 By Simon Alvarez Credit: Tesla Semi/X Tesla seems to be putting a lot of effort into growing its Semi team. As per recent reports, the company has hired over 1,000 factory workers in Nevada for its Semi program. The update was initially reported by Insider , which cited three people reportedly familiar with the matter. Bigger Semi Team As per the publication’s sources, Tesla has reportedly hired over a thousand new factory workers for the Semi program in Nevada. The hiring ramp is reportedly part of the company’s efforts to fulfill the orders for the Semi, which have been accumulating for years. To help the new members of the Semi team, Tesla has reportedly brought in the new workers to Giga Nevada for training and tours over the past months. These efforts are quite a notable update for the Semi program, the publication’s sources claimed, since less than 100 factory workers were reportedly assigned to the Class 8 all-electric truck until recently. Tesla has not issued a comment about the matter as of writing. Advertisement Tesla Semi Jobs and Updates Insider ’s report came amidst a hiring ramp in Tesla’s Careers website . As per previous reports, Tesla’s Careers website has uploaded over 80 positions related to the Semi program. The positions are varied, with listings being posted for engineering-related roles in Palo Alto, California, to manufacturing-related roles in Sparks, Nevada, and vehicle service-related roles in Sacramento, California. Tesla also shared a recent video of the ongoing progress of the Semi factory’s construction near Giga Nevada. As per Tesla Semi program lead Dan Priestley, the company has spent the last few months building the facility’s shell, so efforts are now underway to equip the factory with production equipment. The Tesla executive also reiterated the company’s target of producing 50,000 units of the Semi annually from its Nevada factory. Continue Reading Lifestyle Elon Musk jokes he will join Mr Beast’s “100 Men vs 1 Gorilla” challenge It’s a good sign, if any, that the overworked Musk is becoming a bit more lighthearted again. Published 6 hours ago on April 29, 2025 By Simon Alvarez Credit: Elon Musk/X Following the first quarter Tesla earnings call, CEO Elon Musk seems to have become a bit more relaxed—relaxed enough to joke about fighting a gorilla with 99 other people, at least. It’s a good sign, if any, that the overworked Musk is becoming a bit more lighthearted again and not too busy picking fights with politicians on social media. The Viral 100 Men vs 1 Gorilla Challenge Over the weekend, a post on social media platform X went viral. The post itself was quite simple, with user @DreamChasnMike stating that he thinks 100 men could beat one gorilla. “Everybody just gotta be dedicated to the sh*t,” the X user joked. The post exploded on the platform , garnering 284 million impressions as of writing. i think 100 niggas could beat 1 gorilla everybody just gotta be dedicated to the shit😂😂— 🏴‍☠️ (@DreamChasnMike) April 25, 2025 The silly question also triggered a massive debate about whether 100 men would really stand a chance against a literal gorilla. Some users even lamented that the premise was a sign of male hubris. Nevertheless, the question proved to be a fun topic on X, with some more dedicated users even posting simulated videos of what the “100 Men vs 1 Gorilla Challenge” could look like. 100 men vs 1 Gorilla Who you got? $MVG I got 1 Gorilla. pic.twitter.com/b7vKKLgduH — Crypto_Moony (@knicksreek) April 27, 2025 Mr. Beast and Elon Musk Join In The premise is quite similar to other viral videos from noted YouTube creator Mr. Beast , so it was no surprise that edited images of Mr. Beast YouTube thumbnails with “100 Men vs a Gorilla” also started spreading on the social media platform. Mr. Beast, who tends to be game to such silly ideas, actually reposted the edited image, joking “Need 100 men to test this, any volunteers?” Advertisement Need 100 men to test this, any volunteers? pic.twitter.com/p2iQvOWbYJ — MrBeast (@MrBeast) April 28, 2025 In true Elon Musk fashion , the Tesla and SpaceX CEO noted that he would join the challenge. “Sure, what’s the worst that could happen” Musk wrote in his post on X. Musk’s reply triggered quite a few laughs on X, with some stating that the world probably still needs the CEO. Sure, what’s the worst that could happen?— Elon Musk (@elonmusk) April 29, 2025 While silly, Musk’s comment and his recent, more frequent posts about his companies’ products like Starlink and Grok have been received well by his supporters. Over the past months, after all, Musk has been very political and quite confrontational on social media. With Musk soon taking a step back from the Department of Government Efficiency’s (DOGE) daily operations, however, it seems like X will soon get a more tempered and lighthearted Elon Musk once more. Continue Reading News Big Tesla win? Sec Lutnick says cars with 85% domestic content will face zero tariffs That’s a big competitive advantage for Tesla’s best-selling vehicle. Published 7 hours ago on April 29, 2025 By Simon Alvarez Credit: Tesla Europe & Middle East/X It appears that Tesla may see itself with a notable advantage in the United States. This is, at least, as per recent comments from United States Commerce Secretary Howard Lutnick. Lutnick’s Comments In recent comments to reporters, Lutnick stated that vehicles finished in the United States with 85% domestic content will have no tariff applied, as noted in a report from The Guardian . Automakers that meet this threshold stand to gain an advantage in the U.S. auto sector, especially considering the Trump administration’s aggressive tariffs. As per Lutnick, the administration’s auto tariffs will apply to foreign carmakers that are building their vehicles in the United States. “This is ‘finish your cars in America and you win’,” Lutnick stated. JUST IN: Commerce Secretary Lutnick says auto tariff relief is coming • Cars manufactured with at least 85% of domestic content will face ZERO tariffs • US automakers will receive credit up to 15% of the value of vehicles to offset cost of imported parts— Morning Brew ☕️ (@MorningBrew) April 29, 2025 Big Tesla Advantage Lutnick’s comments were received positively by Tesla watchers on social media, many of whom noted that the threshold would probably be met only by the electric vehicle maker’s cars. Teslas that are sold in the United States are built in the United States , and they have consistently ranked among the most American cars in the country for several years running. Advertisement Back in December, for example, American University’s Kogod School of Business released its Made in America Auto Index , which explores the total domestic content of vehicles that are available for purchase today. In its rankings, only three vehicles received a total domestic content score of 85% or higher—the Tesla Model Y, Model Y Long Range, and the Model 3 Performance. The two Model Y variants received a total domestic content score of 85%, while the Model 3 Performance had a total domestic content of 87.5%. If Secretary Lutnick’s comments are any indication, these three vehicles would be subjected to zero tariffs. This bodes well for Tesla, as the Model Y is the company’s best-selling vehicle by a notable margin. Continue Reading Latest Popular Videos News 3 hours ago Tesla hired over 1,000 factory workers for its Semi program in NV: report Lifestyle 6 hours ago Elon Musk jokes he will join Mr Beast’s “100 Men vs 1 Gorilla” challenge News 7 hours ago Big Tesla win? Sec Lutnick says cars with 85% domestic content will face zero tariffs News 4 weeks ago Tesla rolls out new, more affordable trim of the Model Y Juniper in U.S. News 4 weeks ago Tesla shares Optimus’ improved walk in new update video Elon Musk 4 weeks ago Tesla Germany reports 4,935 units sold in Q1 2025 News 3 months ago SpaceX completes second catch of lower stage, but loses Starship News 6 months ago Tesla flexes Robotaxi wireless charging — autonomy from top to bottom News 7 months ago Tesla unloads new Semi details: variants, efficiency, fleet data so far Advertisement Yea, we ❤️ these things. You got 'em? 3D MAXpider for 2026 Tesla Model Y ✅ Complete All-Weather Protection ✅ Triple-layer design ✅ Won't warp, won't distort, won't slide, perfect fit ✅ Ultra-premium look and comfort that  your Tesla deserves! 📹▶️ https://t.co/LUsuzI8TDk pic.twitter.com/0m8POOpTfe — TESLARATI (@Teslarati) April 13, 2025 Trending News 1 week ago Tesla’s Hollywood Diner is finally getting close to opening Elon Musk 2 weeks ago Tesla doubles down on Robotaxi launch date, putting a big bet on its timeline News 4 days ago Tesla is trying to make a statement with its Q2 delivery numbers News 2 weeks ago Tesla’s top investor questions ahead of the Q1 2025 earnings call Investor's Corner 1 week ago LIVE BLOG: Tesla (TSLA) Q1 2025 Company Update and earnings call News 2 weeks ago Tesla police fleet saves nearly half a million in upkeep and repair costs News 2 weeks ago Global EV sales climbed 29% in March, powered by China & Europe Elon Musk 2 weeks ago Tesla reportedly suspended Cybercab and Semi parts order amid tariff war: Reuters Home About Us Contact Us Advertise With Us Terms Privacy Copyright © TESLARATI. All rights reserved.