National Teacher of the Year Named 2022 Convocation Speaker | Harvard Graduate School of Education Skip to main content Home - Harvard Graduate School of Education Events Visit Give Search Close Search the site Search Helpful Links Admissions and Aid Career Services Office Explore Our Campus Financial Aid Office For Alumni For Employees For Students Faculty Directory Gutman Library Office Directory Registrar's Office Student Affairs Office Menu Menu Close Close Activating a button in the list below will change the content that follows the list. Degrees & Programs Admissions & Aid Ideas & Impact Faculty Community & Culture Professional Development About Degrees & Programs Explore our programs — offering exceptional academic preparation, opportunities for growth, and the tools to make an impact. Introduce Yourself Master’s in Education (Ed.M.) Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Admissions & Aid Find everything you need to apply for and finance your graduate education. Introduce Yourself How to Apply Connect Prospective Student Resources Financial Aid Tuition and Costs Community & Culture Ideas & Impact Stories, strategies, and actionable knowledge — putting HGSE's powerful ideas into practice. Explore the Section Usable Knowledge Harvard EdCast Ed. Magazine News Centers, Projects, and Initiatives Events Faculty With deep expertise that connects research, practice, and policy, HGSE faculty are leaders in the field. Explore the Section Faculty Directory Faculty in the Media Faculty Expertise Faculty Recruitment Community & Culture Get to know our community — and all the ways to learn, collaborate, connect, develop your career, and build your network. Explore the Section Beyond the Classroom Gutman Library Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion For Students For Employees For Alumni Professional Development Faculty-led programs to deepen your impact and build your effectiveness as an educator and leader. Explore the Section Early Childhood Programs K-12 Programs Higher Education Programs How to Apply For Organizations Account Login About Explore the Section Office of the Dean Explore Our Campus History of HGSE Office Directory Careers at HGSE Calendar Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Title IX Information Gutman Library Access the premiere education subject library for Harvard University. Explore the Library For Current Students Access the Office of Student Affairs, the Office of the Registrar, Career Services, and other key resources. Explore Student Resources For Alumni Explore opportunities to grow, build connections, and create change. Explore Alumni Resources Degrees & Programs Degrees & Programs Explore our programs — offering exceptional academic preparation, opportunities for growth, and the tools to make an impact. Introduce Yourself Master’s in Education (Ed.M.) Doctor of Education Leadership (Ed.L.D.) Doctor of Philosophy in Education (Ph.D.) Admissions & Aid Admissions & Aid Find everything you need to apply for and finance your graduate education. Introduce Yourself How to Apply Connect Prospective Student Resources Financial Aid Tuition and Costs Community & Culture Ideas & Impact Ideas & Impact Stories, strategies, and actionable knowledge — putting HGSE's powerful ideas into practice. Explore the Section Usable Knowledge Harvard EdCast Ed. Magazine News Centers, Projects, and Initiatives Events Faculty Faculty With deep expertise that connects research, practice, and policy, HGSE faculty are leaders in the field. Explore the Section Faculty Directory Faculty in the Media Faculty Expertise Faculty Recruitment Community & Culture Community & Culture Get to know our community — and all the ways to learn, collaborate, connect, develop your career, and build your network. Explore the Section Beyond the Classroom Gutman Library Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion For Students For Employees For Alumni Professional Development Professional Development Faculty-led programs to deepen your impact and build your effectiveness as an educator and leader. Explore the Section Early Childhood Programs K-12 Programs Higher Education Programs How to Apply For Organizations Account Login About About Explore the Section Office of the Dean Explore Our Campus History of HGSE Office Directory Careers at HGSE Calendar Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Title IX Information Events Visit Give Gutman Library Access the premiere education subject library for Harvard University. Explore the Library For Current Students Access the Office of Student Affairs, the Office of the Registrar, Career Services, and other key resources. Explore Student Resources For Alumni Explore opportunities to grow, build connections, and create change. Explore Alumni Resources News National Teacher of the Year Named 2022 Convocation Speaker Special education teacher and instructional strategist Juliana Uturbey will address HGSE graduates on May 25. Posted March 23, 2022 By Emily Boudreau Juliana Uturbey Harvard Graduate School of Education is pleased to announce that Juliana Urtubey , the National Teacher of the Year for 2021–2022, will address this year’s graduating class and their families at Convocation on May 25, 2022. Urtubey, a first-generation, bilingual immigrant who works to nurture her students’ sense of pride in themselves and their communities, is a special education teacher and instructional strategist at the Kermit R. Booker, Sr. Innovative Elementary School in Las Vegas. She serves children in preK–5 special education classrooms and develops supports to help meet a variety of academic, social-emotional, and behavioral needs. “As the 2021 National Teacher of the Year, Juliana Urtubey is a shining example of the extraordinary role teachers can play in the lives of their students and communities,” says Dean Bridget Long . “She is a fierce advocate for inclusive education that celebrates all identities, and the important work she is doing as a bilingual and special education teacher resonates at a time when educators and families around the world grapple with the repercussions of a two-year pandemic. Juliana's selection as the HGSE Convocation speaker is especially meaningful and timely in the context of the recent historic gift to HGSE in support of financial aid for aspiring and experienced teachers and our substantial investment in advancing the teaching profession. I know her words will be uplifting for our graduates and their families, as well as for our faculty, staff, and alumni.” >> Listen to the Harvard EdCast with Juliana Urtubey As the National Teacher of the Year, and throughout her career, Urtubey has advocated for an education that not only embraces all facets of a student’s identity, family, and community but also celebrates it — and encourages students to do the same. She believes that schools and classrooms should reflect the passion, values, and wisdom of students, families, and the surrounding community. “I firmly hold the belief that education transforms,” Urtubey said when speaking at the State and National Teachers of the Year Ceremony at the White House . “In the face of marginalization, classrooms that include and encourage all students to learn and grow, we nurture our students’ identities as a point of pride. We humanize our students and their families. We know that with the right access, all of our students can soar. When we wrap our collective arms around students’ identities, we have the ability to build a society that is more joyous and just.” In her own practice, Urtubey has celebrated students and their cultures on school walls in colorful murals. Known affectionately as “Ms. Earth,” she’s also raised funds for two garden programs at two Las Vegas Schools and runs the Garden Gnomies club. The gardens have served as places for students to gather, build, and nurture green spaces on school grounds. These beautification projects have not only been sources of joy but offer innovative and intergenerational learning opportunities for students, families, and the wider community. She knows that this graduating class of educators will continue to find bright spots to inspire and engage students. “Our nation’s students — bright, diverse, and inspiring learners of all ages — deserve an equitable education that sets them up for success long term,” says Urtubey. “The graduating class of 2022 has much to look forward to as they take their dedication and expertise into classrooms, school districts and state departments of education and work in service of those students.” Urtubey is a National Board Certified Teacher, a member and fellow of the National Board for Professional Teaching Standards Board of Directors, a Nevada Teach Plus Senior Policy Fellow, an Understood Teacher Fellow and mentor, and the winner of the 2018 Rogers Foundation Heart of Education award. News The latest research, perspectives, and highlights from the Harvard Graduate School of Education Explore All Articles Related Articles News Convocation 2011: Faculty Speaker Address News James Meredith to Speak at Convocation News Convocation 2016 Speaker Announced Home - Harvard Graduate School of Education 13 Appian Way, Cambridge, MA 02138 Follow Us Instagram Twitter Youtube Facebook Podcast LinkedIn TikTok About Contact Directory Directions Careers Harvard University Get the latest insights and news from the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Subscribe Follow Us Instagram Twitter Youtube Facebook Podcast LinkedIn TikTok HGSE Publishing Policies & Disclaimers Digital Accessibility Policy Privacy Policy Trademark Notice ©2025 President and Fellows of Harvard College