The Blacklist Season 10: Recap, Plot, and Cast - Netflix Tudum Skip to main content Sign In By Netflix Search Home Top 10 Trending What to Watch Shows Movies Podcasts Shop Netflix Shop Exclusive merch from your Netflix faves Podcasts Hear more about Netflix’s TV shows and films Popular Weak Hero The Life List Squid Game You Adolescence Black Mirror Ransom Canyon When Life Gives You Tangerines Wednesday Stranger Things The Blacklist Season 10: Recap, Plot, and Cast - Netflix Tudum Images: Will Hart/NBC via Getty Images Deep Dive The Blacklist Season 10: Everything You Need to Know In the series’ final season, an army of Blacklisters are hell-bent on ending Red… if they can pin him down. By Ingrid Ostby Feb. 15, 2024 After nearly 10 years checking off the world’s scariest to-do list, criminal turned criminal catcher Raymond Reddington is back on the scene — much to the surprise of his nemeses and beloved colleagues alike. Turns out he’s got a bit more masterminding ahead of him. Unfortunately for Red, he’s made a lot of enemies… and they want revenge. Bad. In the final season of Jon Bokenkamp’s The Blacklist , starring James Spader, the Blacklisters are coming out of the woodwork in droves to do a hit job on our fave task force leader. Will he be able to thwart them one last time? EXPLORE Sneak Peek Sofía Vergara Has Blood on Her Hands in the First 10 Minutes of Griselda March 5, 2024 Who’s Who The Griselda Cast Is Dangerous and Dazzling Feb. 6, 2024 News Griselda: Everything You Need to Know About Sofía Vergara’s New Series Dec. 9 First Look Griselda First Look Photos Sept. 13, 2023 21 photos Where can I watch The Blacklist Season 10? Stream Season 10 — and every season of The Blacklist — on Netflix now . Who’s in the The Blacklist Season 10 cast? James Spader ( Avengers: Age of Ultron , The Office ) as Raymond “Red” Reddington, an FBI informant Hisham Tawfiq ( Jinn ) as Dembe Zuma, Red’s former bodyguard Amir Arison ( The Dropout ) as Aram Mojtabai, an FBI special agent and tech guy Diego Klattenhoff ( Homeland ) as Donald Ressler, an FBI special agent Chin Han ( American Born Chinese ) as Wujing, an assassin and hacker who was on Red’s blacklist Stacy Keach ( Man with a Plan ) as Robert Vesco, a financier Alex Brightman ( Dead End: Paranormal Park ) as Herbie Hambright, a forensic analyst Daniel Sauli ( The Deuce ) as The Freelancer, an assassin Anya Banerjee ( Auckward Love ) as Siya Malik, an MI6 agent Deirdre Lovejoy ( The Wire ) as Senator Cynthia Panabaker Wayne Duvall ( O Brother, Where Art Thou? ) as Senator Clayton Dorf Parminder Nagra ( ER ) as Meera Malik, Siya’s mother and a CIA field agent Toby Leonard Moore ( Billions ) as Arthur Hudson, a congressman Harry Lennix ( Billions ) as Harold Cooper, FBI Counterterrorism Division’s assistant director Derrick Williams ( Godfather of Harlem ) as Jordan Nixon, an FBI special agent What’s Season 10 of The Blacklist about? Criminal informant Raymond, aka Red (Spader), isn’t supposed to be in New York City anytime soon. In fact, he’s been missing for six months. But Aram (Arison), who’s on sabbatical from the FBI, spots Red on Manhattan’s Upper East Side — in plain clothes, and without his security detail. The two make eye contact, but Red ignores Aram and hops into a cab. Moments later, a building nearby blows up. It seems like Red’s behind it, so Cooper (Lennix) and his task force begin to break down the clues — and figure out what the heck Red’s up to this time. Meanwhile, Wujiing, a violent criminal Red put in jail nearly 10 years ago, is taking a scorched-earth approach to get revenge on Red for informing on him. Wujing, who’s escaped prison, is building his own task force — filled with former Blacklisters — to take down Red once and for all. After years of hunting criminals, Red’s now the one with a target on his back. The following contains major character or plot details. What happens in Season 9 of The Blacklist ? In Season 9, Red finds out his lawyer, Marvin (Fisher Stevens), is a double-crosser. Not only has he been in cahoots with Wujing (Han), but he was responsible for the murder of FBI special agent Elizabeth Keen (Megan Boone). Marvin attempts to flee, but Ressler (Klattenhoff) arrests him. While in custody, Marvin meets up with Wujing and reveals that Red’s the one who put him behind bars. So Wujing vows to kill Red, and to that end, Marvin gives Wujing Red’s blacklist — which is full of criminals Red’s informed on — and helps Wujing escape. While attempting to get immunity, Marvin — after finding out Red plans to kill him to avenge Liz’s death — commits suicide. Explore Drama Action Deep Dive Article My List Watch The Blacklist 10 Seasons TV-14 2019 After turning himself in, a brilliant fugitive offers to help the FBI bag other baddies, but only if rookie profiler Elizabeth Keen is his partner. Shop The Blacklist GO TO NETFLIX SHOP Discover More Deep Dive Deep Dive Everything You Need to Know About Single’s Inferno: Choices , the Mobile Game Your trip to Paradise starts in hell. By Timothy J. Seppala Yesterday 9:20 pm Deep Dive The Four Seasons is a Show For All Seasons Tina Fey, Lang Fisher, and Tracey Wigfield take a fresh look at a cult classic. By Alex Frank Yesterday 5:55 pm Deep Dive You Season 5 Ending: Penn Badgley Explains How Joe Goldberg’s Story Concludes “Somebody killing Joe wouldn’t be justice. It would be vengeance.” By Chancellor Agard Yesterday 5:06 pm Deep Dive Watch Conan O’Brien Receive Mark Twain Prize for American Humor in First Trailer The ceremony honoring the comedy legend features special appearances by Adam Sandler, John Mulaney, and more. By Olivia Harrison Yesterday 1:29 pm Deep Dive Battle Camp Unites Netflix Reality Universe Stars for the Ultimate Competition All of your faves face off for the first time ever. By Cole Delbyck April 28 Deep Dive Weak Hero Class 2 : Everything You Need to Know About the Action K-Drama Si-eun is back to fend off bad guys at a new school riddled with bullies. By Ingrid Ostby April 25 Deep Dive The Bullies Get Their Dues in Weak Hero Class 1 The action-packed K-drama stars actor and singer Park Ji-hoon. By Ingrid Ostby April 25 Deep Dive Chef’s Table Will Celebrate Culinary Legends for Its 10-Year Anniversary This season serves a stunning blend of the world’s greatest chefs. By Natalie Morin April 25 Discover More Drama News Tickets Are on Sale Now For Stranger Things: The First Shadow Play on Broadway The show opened in April, with Louis McCartney reprising his role as Henry Creel. By Tara Bitran 12:12 am News You Returns for Its Final Season and Immediately Tops the Charts Plus: HAVOC erupts on the films list, and audiences turn to The Two Popes . By Terrence Doyle Yesterday 6:59 pm News They’re (Almost) Back, Peaches! Ginny & Georgia Season 3 Is Coming in June Check out every episode title for clues about what’s next for the Millers. By Tara Bitran Yesterday 5:00 pm News Watch the Killer Fear Street: Prom Queen Main Trailer The new nightmare chapter drops May 23. By John DiLillo Yesterday 3:00 pm Who’s Who Say Hello to the You Season 5 Cast From the Goldbergs to the Lockwoods to Bronte and beyond. By Ariana Romero Yesterday 12:00 am Explainer Who Is Kate in ‘You’? Get to Know Joe’s Love Interest She’s tough, yet vulnerable. But what’s she hiding? By Ariana Romero April 28 Explainer What Happened to Marienne on You ? Tati Gabrielle Tells All Even Joe doesn’t know the full story. But you can. By Ariana Romero April 28 What To Watch Grab Your Cowboy Boots and Take a Beyoncé Tour Through Your Netflix Queue Pair the Beyoncé Bowl with Homecoming , Queen Charlotte needle drops, and more. By Christopher Hudspeth April 28 Latest News Making Of The Six Triple Eight Tells the Heroic Story of the 6888th Battalion 12:15 am News Head Back to the Arctic for North of North Season 2 12:00 am Official Player Guide Single’s Inferno: Choices : Your Guide to the Hottest Island On the Planet Yesterday 9:21 pm News Molly Shannon, Marc Maron, Join Everybody’s Live This Week Yesterday 6:56 pm ‎ All of The Games on Netflix Right Now Yesterday 5:01 pm More News Popular Now New on Netflix New on Netflix in April 2025 Stream new episodes of You, Black Mirror, Love on the Spectrum , and more. By Erin Corbett April 17 Who’s Who Meet the 18 Netflix Reality Universe Stars Facing Off in Battle Camp Stars from Love Is Blind , The Circle, and more will collide in the competition. By Olivia Harrison April 25 News A Deadly American Marriage Unravels a Tragic Love Story Watch the trailer for this real-life tale of love and betrayal, and hear from those closest to the case. By Troy Pozirekides April 28 Explainer Ransom Canyon Ending Explained: Do Quinn and Staten Finally Get Together? Love, land, and a mystery — let’s unpack the romantic Western drama. By Brookie McIlvaine April 21 Popular Releases Back To Top About Tudum Netflix Shop Top 10 Podcasts Sign Into Netflix Home Privacy Terms of Use Cookie Preferences Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Ad Choices © 2025 netflix Close Search Close Hi, undefined!