Historic 2020 Election a “Momentous Episode in the Story of American Democracy” | Bostonia | Boston University */ Skip to Main Content Boston University Bostonia BU Today The Brink More Publications University Publications Bostonia BU Today The Brink School & College Publications The Record Other Publications Bostonia Sections Search Boston University’s Alumni Magazine Historic 2020 Election a “Momentous Episode in the Story of American Democracy” A woman placing her ballot in a dropbox after voting at Fenway Park, Saturday, October 17, 2020. AP Photo/Michael Dwyer Politics BU Historian: 2020 Presidential Election a “Momentous Episode in the Story of American Democracy” The spectacle of regular elections, despite disease and discontent, offers “glimmer of light” in dark times November 4, 2020 0 Bruce J. Schulman Twitter Facebook A century and a half ago, amid the Civil War, President Abraham Lincoln asserted the necessity, and celebrated the heroism, of a democracy “strong enough to maintain its own existence in great emergencies.” Turnout reached 74 percent in that wartime election, aided by innovation: the mail-in ballots by Union Army soldiers. In 2020, the nation once again met crisis—the deadliest pandemic in a century—with a combination of resolve and invention. Fueled by an unprecedented accumulation of early, absentee, and mail-in votes, Americans turned out at a rate not seen in more than a century. At this writing (the morning of Wednesday, November 4), the outcome of the 2020 presidential election remains in doubt: former Vice President Joe Biden, the Democratic party nominee, holds a slight lead, but President Donald Trump retains a narrow possibility of reelection. Contested under the shadow of the coronavirus, which infected even one of the presidential candidates, the 2020 campaign set modern records for spending and for participation. In a deeply divided nation, with little space for consensus, nearly every observer has depicted 2020 as a historic crossroads for the United States. The campaign, according to Trump, marks “the most important election in US history.” According to his opponent, it represents nothing less than a contest for the soul of the nation, a struggle over whether democracy, decency, and even reason itself can long endure. AP Photo/Kathy Willens Three with BU Ties Reelected to Congress Three Democratic women with BU ties won reelection to Congress on Tuesday, two of them members of the high-profile “Squad” of young progressive women who have been a frequent target of President Donald Trump, while two hopefuls lost their races. Read More But what does it mean to mark an election as “historic”? Since the founding of the republic, a handful of presidential contests—1800, 1860, 1896—have, like this year’s, seemed to the people who waged them to be decisive tests for the nation. Sometimes those predictions panned out; other times not. In 1896, for example, even sober commentators like the august Saturday Review of London labeled the campaign “an event of profound historical significance from every point of view, political, social, ethical, international.” Firebombs exploded on election eve, and unruly mobs clogged city streets from Boston to San Francisco. Yet while the contest certainly mattered, nobody remembers it, in the Saturday Review ’s words, as among “the great epoch-making occurrences” like “the French Revolution.” On the other hand, some historic elections snuck up on candidates and voters; they did not seem particularly momentous during the campaign, but their results profoundly altered the stream of US history. The contested elections of 1824, 1876, and 2000 fit that bill. Still others become “historic” only long after the fact because they initiated long-term trends. At the time, 1936 looked ho-hum—the landslide reelection of a popular president. Decades later, historians see in it the birth of the liberal New Deal coalition that structured American politics for the next 40 years. Whatever the final tally and the long-term impact of 2020, the scale of the contest (a record popular vote exceeding 150 million), the crisis conditions under which Americans decided it, and the innovative ways they voted will make it a momentous episode in the story of American democracy. “We can not have free government without elections,” Lincoln reminded his countrymen during a mortal threat to the nation. Even in times as dark as Lincoln’s, or our own, the spectacle of regular elections, on schedule, despite disease, depression, and discontent, must offer some glimmer of light—some hope that government of the people, by the people, for the people, shall not perish from the earth. This Series Election 2020: A Day of Nervousness Turns to a Night of Uncertainty Also in election-2020-mini November 13, 2020 Video: BU Students Reflect on Historic 2020 Presidential Election November 11, 2020 Voices of BU Women Rejoicing with Kamala Harris November 7, 2020 Joe Biden Defeats President Trump, Clearing the Way to Becoming 46th US President Series home Explore Related Topics: Faculty Share this story 0 Comments Add Share Historic 2020 Election a “Momentous Episode in the Story of American Democracy” Share Twitter Facebook Reddit LinkedIn Email Copy URL: Copy Bruce J. Schulman Bruce J. Schulman is BU’s William E. Huntington Professor of History. Profile Comments & Discussion Boston University moderates comments to facilitate an informed, substantive, civil conversation. Abusive, profane, self-promotional, misleading, incoherent or off-topic comments will be rejected. Moderators are staffed during regular business hours (EST) and can only accept comments written in English. Statistics or facts must include a citation or a link to the citation. Post a comment. Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment * view guidelines Name * Email * Submit Comment Latest from Bostonia TV & Film Alum’s Short Film Sheds Light on Braving an Abusive Relationship Music Can Missy Mazzoli Help Reinvent Opera in America? University News Boston University’s Flagship Alumni Magazine Celebrates 125 Years TV & Film Commercial Success: Actor David Hoffman Is Liberty Mutual’s Doug TV & Film Costume Designer Esther Marquis Makes Sci-Fi Space Travel Look Realistic on TV Alumni Reading List: A New Historical Novel, Set in the Galapagos, by Alum Midge Raymond Visual Arts Gallery: Grace Julian-Murthy (CFA’96) Feedback Feedback: Readers Remember Beatlemania, Recall Campus Inequalities, Pan Feedback University News BU Wheelock Faculty Named Top Educational Policy Influencers Faculty Retired SSW Professor Millie Flashman, Passionate About Working with Couples and Families, Dies Tributes Walter Lubars: “An Inspiration to a Generation of  Advertising Students” Faculty Morton Hoffman, Metcalf Cup and Prize Winner, Dies Tributes Questrom’s Melvyn Menezes Remembered as an Exceptional Educator Tributes Alum Found BU “a Very Exciting Place” Campus & Facilities Transforming a Center for Training Clinicians Arts & Culture Pop Culture Archive Features Memorabilia, Nostalgic Artifacts Tributes Remembering Questrom’s Philip E. Meyer, Alum Irving J. Heller WWII History Finding the Names of BU’s World War II Casualties Lost to Time Arts & Culture BU Alum Stars in National Tour of Harry Potter and the Cursed Child Alumni US Navy to Name Ships for BU Alumna Who Died in Combat in Iraq Section navigation Sections Notable Issues Series Videos Topics Archive About + Contact Get Our Email Explore Our Publications Bostonia Boston University’s Alumni Magazine BU Today News, Opinion, Community The Brink Pioneering Research from Boston University Search Bostonia… Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Weibo TikTok ©  Boston University. All rights reserved. www.bu.edu © 2025 Trustees of Boston University Privacy Statement Accessibility Boston University Notice of Non-Discrimination: Boston University prohibits discrimination and harassment on the basis of race, color, natural or protective hairstyle, religion, sex or gender, age, national origin, ethnicity, shared ancestry and ethnic characteristics, physical or mental disability, sexual orientation, gender identity and/or expression, genetic information, pregnancy or pregnancy-related condition, military service, marital, parental, veteran status, or any other legally protected status in any and all educational programs or activities operated by Boston University. Retaliation is also prohibited. Please refer questions or concerns about Title IX, discrimination based on any other status protected by law or BU policy, or retaliation to Boston University’s Executive Director of Equal Opportunity/Title IX Coordinator, at titleix@bu.edu or (617) 358-1796. Read Boston University’s full Notice of Nondiscrimination . Close Search Search for: Search Boston University Masterplate Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address Cancel Post was not sent - check your email addresses! Email check failed, please try again Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email. Historic 2020 Election a “Momentous Episode in the Story of American Democracy” 0 share this