Heisman winner guilty with phony ID News Sports Entertainment Lifestyle Opinion Advertise Obituaries eNewspaper Legals SPORTS Heisman winner guilty with phony ID Staff Writer Journal Star Texas A&M quarterback Johnny Manziel pleaded guilty Monday in College Station, Texas, to a misdemeanor stemming from a 2012 bar fight near campus, closing a case that had dogged his Heisman Trophy-winning season. Manziel admitted he failed to identify himself to police following the altercation. As part of a plea deal, other charges against the 20-year-old, including disorderly conduct, were dismissed. Brazos County Attorney Rod Anderson says Manziel was ordered to pay a $2,000 fine, about $230 in court costs and was credited with the overnight jail time he served following his arrest. Police said an officer on bike patrol had intervened to break up a fight between Manziel and Marvin McKinney just after 2 a.m. in a street in the Northgate entertainment district.  McKinney told police that a friend of Manziel’s had called him a racial slur. He said Manziel shoved McKinney as he approached the two, and then they exchanged punches. When officers asked Manziel for an ID, he produced a phony Louisiana driver’s license that showed his birthday as Dec. 6, 1990. Police checked Manziel’s wallet and found two more ID cards — a fake Texas driver’s license and Manziel’s real driver’s license that listed his date of birth as Dec. 6, 1992. Need a break? Play the USA TODAY Daily Crossword Puzzle. Not long ago, he tweeted that he “can’t wait to leave college station... whenever it may be.” “Don’t ever forget that I love A&M with all of my heart, but please please walk a day in my shoes,” he added. ILLINI WATCH: Illinois linebacker Jonathan Brown was named to the watch list for the Butkus Award. The annual award, named after former Illini and Chicago Bears great Dick Butkus, goes to the nation’s top linebacker. Brown, entering his senior season, was among 51 players chosen to the watch list. The semifinalists will be named Oct. 28, finalists Nov. 26 and the winner will be notified on or before Dec. 10. Notre Dame’s Manti Te’o won the award last season. Brown was a Butkus Award semifinalist and honorable mention All-Big Ten selection in 2012 despite missing the final three games of the season with a shoulder injury and missing significant portions of four other games due to injury. He was leading the Illini with 59 tackles, 9.5 tackles for loss and 2.5 sacks before having his season cut short. Brown, from Memphis, Tenn., has now been named to three preseason watch lists this month, as he was chosen to the Nagurski Trophy and Bednarik Award defensive player of the year watch lists last week. COMMODORE CONTROVERSEY: Vanderbilt has identified the four players dismissed from the team for an incident last month that is being investigated by police as a possible sex crime. Coach James Franklin released a statement saying defensive back Brandon Banks, safety Cory Batey, receiver Jaborian "Tip" McKenzie and tight end Brandon Vandenburg are no longer on the roster after violating team rules. Vanderbilt dismissed the players June 29 and kicked them off campus. Careers Staff Directory Accessibility Sitemap Legals Our Ethical Principles USA TODAY Network Style Guide Responsible Disclosure Subscription Terms & Conditions Advertiser Acceptance Policy Terms of Service Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choices Contact Us Support Local Business Advertise Your Business Buy and Sell Licensing & Reprints Help Center Subscriber Guide Manage Account Give Feedback Subscribe Today Newsletters Facebook X Instagram eNewspaper Archives Jobs Cars Homes Classifieds Pay Your Ad Bill Shopping 10BEST LocaliQ Digital Marketing Solutions © 2025 www.pjstar.com. All rights reserved.