Titanic shipwreck: A look at notable people, companies who have made the expedition | FOX 10 Phoenix News Weather Live Video Vallow Daybell trial FOX LOCAL Contests More Watch Live Expand / Collapse search ☰ Search site News Arizona Headlines AZAM Crime & Public Safety - Lori Vallow-Daybell trial Health Immigration Latest Videos Poll of the Day Real ID for travel Seen on TV Links Sports Traffic Weather Forecast LIVE: Weather webcams Weather Planners Weather Alerts Weather Headlines Weather App Wildfires FOX Weather Money Business Economy Jobs & Unemployment Personal Finance Politics Arizona Politics - Newsmaker National Politics - Tariffs Only on FOX 10 AZ Eats Care Force Comfort Home Tips Cool House The Curious B Drone Zone FOX 10 Salutes Great American Story Investigations Made in Arizona Missing in Arizona On the Record Special Reports Spotlight Entertainment TV Listings Where to watch FOX 10 Originals FOX 10 Explains FOX 10 Talks Morning Brief Nightly Roundup Week in Review Regional News Los Angeles News - FOX 11 Los Angeles San Francisco News - KTVU FOX 2 Seattle News - FOX 13 Seattle About Us Advertise Closed Captioning Contact Us Copies of Newscasts FCC Applications FCC Public File FOX 10 FAQs News Team Sign up for newsletters Work for Us Live Video & Apps FOX Local App Live Newscasts Live Webcams FOX 10 News App FOX 10 Weather App More Contests FOX 10 Events Send us your photos Stay Connected YouTube TikTok Instagram Facebook Twitter/X Threads BlueSky Fire Weather Watch from SUN 10:00 AM MST until SUN 8:00 PM MST, Eastern Pima-Southeastern Pinal-Santa Cruz-Western Cochise, Northern Graham-Northern Greenlee-White and Gila Mountains, Southern Graham-Central and Eastern Cochise-Southern Greenlee-Lower Elevations of the San Carlos Apache Nation in Graham County 6 Fire Weather Watch from SUN 10:00 AM MST until SUN 7:00 PM MST, White Mountains, Little Colorado River Valley in Navajo County, Little Colorado River Valley in Coconino County, Little Colorado River Valley in Apache County Fire Weather Watch from SAT 10:00 AM MST until SAT 7:00 PM MST, Little Colorado River Valley in Navajo County, Little Colorado River Valley in Coconino County, White Mountains, Little Colorado River Valley in Apache County Fire Weather Watch from SAT 11:00 AM MDT until SAT 8:00 PM MDT, Chuska Mountains and Defiance Plateau, Northeast Plateaus and Mesas South of Hwy 264 Fire Weather Watch from SUN 11:00 AM MDT until SUN 8:00 PM MDT, Chuska Mountains and Defiance Plateau, Northeast Plateaus and Mesas South of Hwy 264 Lake Wind Advisory from FRI 10:00 AM MST until FRI 8:00 PM MST, Lake Mead National Recreation Area Titanic shipwreck: A look at notable people, companies who have made the expedition By Kelly Hayes Published June 21, 2023 9:16am MST World FOX TV Stations Share Copy Link Email Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Reddit Titanic submersible search: Banging underwater The Coast Guard reported banging heard underwater amid the search for a missing submersible that transports tourists to the wreckage of the Titanic. Hank Flynn with FOX 29 Philadelphia joined LiveNOW from FOX's Zach Horner to discuss the latest. A submersible that vanished in the North Atlantic while taking five people down to the Titanic has renewed interest in the famous shipwreck, as well as prompted questions regarding what it takes to reach the site 2.5 miles below the ocean’s surface. The submersible named Titan was reported overdue Sunday night, setting off a frantic search with the vessel only having a four-day oxygen supply. The Titan was expected to spend two hours descending to the Titanic, time for exploration, and then another two more resurfacing. Lost aboard the vessel are pilot Stockton Rush, the CEO of OceanGate Expeditions, which oversaw the mission. His passengers are a British adventurer, two members of a Pakistani business family and a Titanic expert. RELATED: Who is Hamish Harding, the British businessman and explorer aboard missing Titanic sightseeing sub? The famous RMS Titanic sank in 1912, but the wreckage wasn’t discovered until nearly 75 years later. The White Star Line passenger liner R.M.S. Titanic embarking on its ill-fated maiden voyage. (Photo: Getty Images) The Titanic’s wreck site is located 963 miles northeast of New York and 453 miles southeast of the Newfoundland coastline, sitting 12,000 feet below sea level. RELATED: How deep is the Titanic? And other things to know as sub search continues Since then, fewer than 250 people in the world have personally viewed the Titanic wreckage, which sits about 2.5 miles below the ocean’s surface, according to OceanGate. Here are some of the notable people and companies who have conducted expeditions to the site since it’s discovery in 1985: James Cameron Famous filmmaker James Cameron famously made the 1997 film "Titanic," which became the highest-grossing film in history at the time, as well as earning 11 Academy Awards. The movie "Titanic," written and directed by James Cameron. Seen here from left, Leonardo DiCaprio as Jack and Kate Winslet as Rose. Initial USA theatrical wide release December 19, 1997. Screen capture. Paramount Pictures. (Photo by CBS via Getty Im Expand His interest in shipwrecks served as a motivation to make the film. "I made Titanic because I wanted to dive to the shipwreck, not because I particularly wanted to make the movie," Cameron told Playboy Magazine in 2010 . "The Titanic was the Mount Everest of shipwrecks, and as a diver I wanted to do it right." Cameron made several submersible dives to the wreck itself prior to the movie’s release. He later formed Earthship Productions to make documentary films about ocean exploration and conservation. In total, he has done 33 dives to the Titanic wreckage site since the film’s release, according to National Geographic . RMS Titanic, Inc. RMS Titanic, Inc., a company that aims to preserve the memory of the famous ship, was granted salvage rights to the wreckage by a U.S. Federal Court order in 1994 – allowing the recovery of artifacts from the site. The company was formed "for the purpose of exploring the wreck of Titanic and its surrounding ocean areas; obtaining oceanographic material and scientific data; and using the data and retrieved artifacts for historical verification, scientific education, and public awareness," according to its website. It also documents and photographs the Titanic in detail in an effort to maintain a comprehensive archive. Since 1987, RMS Titanic, Inc. has conducted eight research missions to the wreck site – with the most recent occurring in 2010. New full-scale Titanic images Research scientists have mapped the Titanic in its entirety as part of the largest underwater 3D capture project ever. OceanGate Expeditions OceanGate Expeditions provides crewed submersible services for exploration, industry and research purposes. It aims to make the deep sea "more accessible for human exploration than ever before," according to its website. Founded by Rush in 2009, it has several custom-built submersibles including Titan, which was designed to reach depths of 13,123 feet necessary to visit the wreck of the Titanic. The Titan utilizes SpaceX's Starlink satellite communications system when at sea. FILE - An undated photo shows tourist submersible belongs to OceanGate begins to descent at a sea. Search and rescue operations continue by US Coast Guard in Boston after a tourist submarine bound for the Titanic's wreckage site went missing off the Expand OceanGate’s expeditions to the Titanic wreck site include archaeologists and marine biologists. The company also brings people who pay $250,000 to come along, taking turns operating sonar equipment and performing other tasks in the submersible. The company launched successful dives to the Titanic site in 2021 and 2022, according to its website. RELATED: OceanGate, company behind missing Titanic tourist sub, once subject of lawsuit over safety complaints This story was reported from Cincinnati. The Associated Press contributed. World Science World News BREAKING NEWS Breaking news delivered fast By clicking Sign Up, I confirm that I have read and agree to the Privacy Policy and Terms of Service . Just In... View More This fast-food chain is closing up to 200 'underperforming' locations LIVE: Authorities in pursuit of possible hit-and-run suspect in LA Book's donation; fiery crash l Morning News Brief "Crimea will stay with Russia," Trump insists as Ukraine war rages on Child critically hurt in fiery north Phoenix crash Trending B-29 Superfortress lands at Phoenix Goodyear Airport Peoria PD recommends charges in deadly dog beating Brothers bond over magnet fishing in Tempe Town Lake Jurors surprised by Vallow Daybell's prior convictions MCSO K-9 Max recovers after being exposed to fentanyl Latest Videos View More video Bad Phoenix crash leaves child with critical injuries video Salt River Tubing begins on April 26 video Gov. Hobbs signs disability services funding bill video TikToker pleads guilty to spraying pesticide on groceries video ASU professor accused of child sex charges WATCH LIVE FOX 10 Talks with Ron Hoon and Syleste Rodriguez Latest news headlines. News Arizona Headlines AZAM Crime & Public Safety - Lori Vallow-Daybell trial Health Immigration Latest Videos Poll of the Day Real ID for travel Seen on TV Links Sports Traffic Weather Forecast LIVE: Weather webcams Weather Planners Weather Alerts Weather Headlines Weather App Wildfires FOX Weather Money Business Economy Jobs & Unemployment Personal Finance Politics Arizona Politics - Newsmaker National Politics - Tariffs Only on FOX 10 AZ Eats Care Force Comfort Home Tips Cool House The Curious B Drone Zone FOX 10 Salutes Great American Story Investigations Made in Arizona Missing in Arizona On the Record Special Reports Spotlight Entertainment TV Listings Where to watch FOX 10 Originals FOX 10 Explains FOX 10 Talks Morning Brief Nightly Roundup Week in Review Regional News Los Angeles News - FOX 11 Los Angeles San Francisco News - KTVU FOX 2 Seattle News - FOX 13 Seattle About Us Advertise Closed Captioning Contact Us Copies of Newscasts FCC Applications FCC Public File FOX 10 FAQs News Team Sign up for newsletters Work for Us Live Video & Apps FOX Local App Live Newscasts Live Webcams FOX 10 News App FOX 10 Weather App More Contests FOX 10 Events Send us your photos Stay Connected YouTube TikTok Instagram Facebook Twitter/X Threads BlueSky facebook twitter instagram youtube tk bluesky email newsletters New Privacy Policy Updated Terms of Use Your Privacy Choices FCC Public File FCC Applications EEO Public File Closed Captioning Contact Us This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2025 FOX Television Stations