Luke Jensen - Choose Confidence Home Episodes Videos About the Show Reviews All Reviews Leave a Review Rate on Apple Podcasts Rate on Spotify Rate Show Contact X / Twitter Facebook Instagram YouTube Control the Controllables´  First Live Show! Follow Apple Podcasts Spotify Overcast Castro RSS Feed Search Follow Apple Podcasts Spotify Overcast Castro RSS Feed June 15, 2021 Luke Jensen - Choose Confidence ATP Grand Slams Former Players Coaches Mental Health Show Notes Leave a Comment If you were a tennis fan in the 80´s and 90´s, you wouldn´t have missed the Jensen Brothers! The original American doubles brothers, Luke & Murphy Jensen were known for their high energy on court, chest bumping and high fives, as well as their long hair and bandanas. Nicknamed the Rock n Roll tennis brothers, they won the mens doubles title at Roland Garros in 1993. Product endorsements poured in and the pair went onto appear on the cover of Rolling Stone and People magazines, increasing global recognition of doubles. In this episode we speak to Luke Jensen, the elder brother, about his tennis journey which saw him reach world junior number 1 in singles and doubles, and number 6 ATP in doubles. Luke has since moved into coaching and is also an analyst for ESPN. He was Head Coach of the Women´s Syracuse tennis team for 7 seasons, and is current Coach of the NY Empires who won the 2020 World Team Tennis title. He also co-founded the Jensen-Schmidt Tennis Academy for Down Syndrome. Luke tells us what is was like growing up in a successful tennis family, his sisters also played to Grand Slam level, and discusses Murphy´s struggle with alcohol and drug addiction during their playing days, and how they are using that experience to help others. An episode full of energy and fun, enjoy! Links Mentioned in this Episode:- Watch Murphy Jenson´s story on The Tennis Channel´s Heroes We Connect , the technology company founded by Murphy Jensen that helps people struggling with drug & alcohol issues. The Jensen-Schmidt Tennis Academy for Down Syndrome. Coco Vanderwegh´s forehand return winner to win the 2020 World Team Tennis Title for the NY Empires. Connect with Us! Catch up with all the latest episodes on our website, www.controlthecontrollables.co.uk Head over to @ctc.podcast on Instagram and hit follow Don´t miss an episode! Hit Subscribe on Apple Podcasts. You can also Rate and Review the podcast and let us know what you think. We´d love to hear from you! Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus. Enjoying Control the Controllables? Let´s Stay Connected! * indicates required Email Address * First Name Listen On ATP Episodes Ross Hutchins: Inside the ATP Australian Open 2022 Review See all → Grand Slams Episodes US Open 2022 - A New Grand Slam Champion & a Farewell US Open Preview 2022 See all → Former Players Episodes Roger Federer Retirement Special Ken Skupski on his Retirement from Pro Tennis See all → Coaches Episodes Neville Godwin - It´s about the Player not the Coach Cameron Norrie & Facu Lugones - Becoming a Top 10 ATP Player See all → Mental Health Episodes Luke Jensen - Choose Confidence Lewis Burton - "The Model" Tennis Player See all → Recent Episodes Adam Blicher: Getting to know ourselves, rather than changing ourselves Doubles Special with Will Boucek Coach Conor Casey: Combining Coaching and Comedy CTC Real - Addressing the Sinner Ban, Mixed Doubles Changes, Vukov Suspension and More.. Felix Mischker: Can you Fund a Pro Tennis Career Through YouTube? Australian Open 2025 Review Day 5 Australian Open LIVE Round Up! Breaking Down the Slam So Far! Day 4 Australian Open LIVE Round Up. Ft. The Legendary Coach Ian Barclay! Day 3 Australian Open LIVE Round Up. Ft. Ollie Cores talking about the AO practice courts! See all → Hosted by the Director of SotoTennis Academy, Dan Kiernan, the Control the Controllables podcast aims to entertain, educate and energise the tennis community, and bring valuable insight from all lenses of the sport to our listeners. In our weekly episodes, Dan picks the brains of current and former professional tennis players, coaches, parents, and others involved in this game that we love. We were voted ´Best Tennis Podcast´ of 2021, 2022 and 2023 by the Sports Podcast Awards! Episodes Videos About the Show Reviews Rate Show Contact Control the Controllables´  First Live Show! © 2025 Control the Controllables Podcast Website by Podpage