Newsletter ranks Fidelity managers - Jul. 14, 1999 Mutual Funds Fidelity's best and worst July 14, 1999:  2:21 p.m. ET Newsletter editor releases biannual rankings of fund giant's managers By Staff Writer Martine Costello NEW YORK (CNNfn) - Robert Stansky continues to prove his stock-picking prowess as head of Fidelity Investments' flagship Magellan Fund, a new survey shows. And Charles Mangum of Fidelity Dividend Growth Fund is the best manager you may never have heard of, said Jim Lowell, editor of Fidelity Investor newsletter. Lowell publishes an analysis of the Boston fund giant's best and worst managers twice a year. "Fidelity has an above average number of talented managers," Lowell said this week. "They're the best in the business." Stansky took over at Magellan in 1996 as assets dropped by nearly $2 billion amid poor performance and widespread investor dissatisfaction. Since then the fund has been a top performer and grown into the nation's largest mutual fund. Assets are near a record $100 billion. "Stansky could manage $200 billion," Lowell said. The $100 billion milestone is interesting only to see how far the fund has come, he said. There was a time when the entire industry had assets of $100 billion. The rankings take into account the performance of all of the funds a manager has led in the past 10 years or in his career at Fidelity; as well as comparisons to benchmarks and other funds. The rankings also take into account risk. Mangum scored even higher in the rankings than Stansky because he's delivered consistently higher returns over his career, Lowell said. The top five managers are: Neal Miller of New Millennium Fund; Erin Sullivan of Aggressive Growth Fund; Mangum; Harry Lange of Capital Appreciation Fund; and Stansky. Miller and Sullivan delivered top returns but also had the most risk. Mangum, who has led the Dividend Growth Fund since 1997, is the type of manager an investor should follow wherever he goes, Lowell said. The advantage is Mangum has delivered top returns with reduced risk. "You hold this manager until he dies, no matter where he goes," Lowell said. At the bottom of the list of stock fund managers, at number 26, is Rich Fentin of the Fidelity Value Fund; followed by Tim Krochuk of the TechnoQuant Growth Fund; Nick Thakore of the Trend Fund; and Adam Hetnarski of the Export Fund. "It's unlikely a bad stock picker will suddenly turn around," Lowell said. But Lowell recommends the value fund because cyclical stocks have turned around. "I think this is a case (with the Value fund) where you buy a fund, not a manager," Lowell said. The newsletter is not affiliated with the fund company. Efforts to reach someone at Fidelity for comment were unsuccessful Wednesday. RELATED STORIES Many funds for one price - July 13, 1999 Large growth funds in Q3 - July 9, 1999 RELATED SITES Fidelity Investments Track your stocks Fidelityinvestor.com Mutual funds on CNNfn.com Note: Pages will open in a new browser window External sites are not endorsed by CNNmoney Contact Us Closed Captioning Manage Cookies+ Site Map > Most stock quote data provided by BATS. Market indices are shown in real time, except for the DJIA, which is delayed by two minutes. All times are ET. Disclaimer. Morningstar: Â© 2018 				Morningstar, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Factset: FactSet Research Systems Inc. 2018. All rights reserved. Chicago Mercantile Association: Certain market data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved. Dow Jones: The Dow Jones branded indices are proprietary to and are calculated, distributed and marketed by DJI Opco, a subsidiary of S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and have been licensed for use to S&P Opco, LLC and CNN. Standard & Poor's and S&P are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor's Financial Services LLC and Dow Jones is a registered trademark of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings LLC. All content of the Dow Jones branded indices Â© S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC 2018 				and/or its affiliates. © 2021 				Cable News Network. A WarnerMedia Company. All Rights Reserved. Terms under which this service is provided to you. Privacy Policy. Do Not Sell Contact Us Closed Captioning Manage Cookies+ Site Map > Most stock quote data provided by BATS. Market indices are shown in real time, except for the DJIA, which is delayed by two minutes. All times are ET. Disclaimer. Morningstar: Â© 2018 				Morningstar, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Factset: FactSet Research Systems Inc. 2018. All rights reserved. Chicago Mercantile Association: Certain market data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved. Dow Jones: The Dow Jones branded indices are proprietary to and are calculated, distributed and marketed by DJI Opco, a subsidiary of S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and have been licensed for use to S&P Opco, LLC and CNN. Standard & Poor's and S&P are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor's Financial Services LLC and Dow Jones is a registered trademark of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings LLC. All content of the Dow Jones branded indices Â© S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC 2018 				and/or its affiliates. © 2021 				Cable News Network. A WarnerMedia Company. All Rights Reserved. Terms under which this service is provided to you. Privacy Policy. Do Not Sell