NCAA Extends NBA Draft Deadline - Our Daily Bears Skip to main content clock menu more-arrow no yes mobile Our Daily Bears homepage Horizontal - White Our Daily Bears a Baylor Bears community Follow Our Daily Bears online: Follow Our Daily Bears on Twitter Follow Our Daily Bears on Facebook Log in or sign up Log In Sign Up Site search Search Search Our Daily Bears main menu Fanposts Sections Library Bears About Masthead Community Guidelines More All 300 communities on Horizontal - White Fanposts Sections Baylor Bears Football Baylor Men’s Basketball Baylor Women’s Basketball Daily Bears Reports Baylor MBB Recruiting Full Archive Library Welcome to Our Daily Bears! Baylor Football 2013 Recruiting Bears Stories Schedule Roster Stats Yahoo Bears News Yahoo Bears Team Page Yahoo Bears Report Yahoo Bears Transactions About Masthead Community Guidelines ✕ Breaking News THANK YOU ALL FOR 12 GREAT YEARS × Filed under: Baylor Men's Basketball NCAA Extends NBA Draft Deadline Time is an illusion during the pandemic By Kendall_Kaut @kendallkaut May 13, 2020,  7:38pm CDT Share this story Share this on Facebook Share this on Twitter Share this on Reddit Share All sharing options Share All sharing options for: NCAA Extends NBA Draft Deadline Reddit Pocket Flipboard Email Raymond Carlin III-USA TODAY Sports With COVID-19 inevitably pushing the NBA Draft back, the NCAA announced that college players will not be held to the June 3rd deadline to withdraw from the NBA Draft. Instead, the NCAA announced the deadline is postponed indefinitely. Here is the NCAA’s statement: “The NCAA’s deadline for men’s basketball student-athletes to withdraw from the NBA draft and retain their eligibility will be pushed back from the current June 3 date. This modification is being made with the health and well-being of our student-athletes in mind, along with their ability to make the most informed decisions during this uncertain time, and is based on the recent announcement by the NBA to postpone the 2020 NBA Draft Combine. Out of respect to the NBA’s process, the decision on a new withdrawal date will be made once the league has determined a timeline for the 2020 pre-draft process. Working in collaboration with National Association of Basketball Coaches Executive Director Jim Haney and the rest of the coaches’ leadership, the NCAA membership will ensure that any change supports a player’s decision-making process related to professional opportunities while also protecting their academic pursuits and the opportunity to play college basketball.” Jared Butler and MaCio Teague put their names in the NBA Draft. Butler hired an NCAA approved agent, which gives him the option to return to school. To the best of my knowledge, Teague has not signed with an agent. Butler appears as a second round draft pick on most sites. It’s very likely he would be drafted, and that gives him a chance to play in the NBA or G-League. But if he returns to Baylor, he’s likely to be a preseason All-American and will be the Big 12’s preseason player of the year. The Bears will also be ranked in the top five and will assuredly receive No. 1 votes. Teague does not appear on most NBA Draft boards, but he is four years removed from high school. He might decide that he wants to make money professionally. But he would also bypass the chance to play on what will be a very good team regardless of Butler’s decision. This is the right move by the NCAA. We don’t know exactly when the NBA will return to normal or allow workouts or team competitions, but players will have more information about their NBA status and the NBA Draft after June 3rd. More From Our Daily Bears GoODBye for Now Baylor Football Unveils Anthracite Alternate Uniforms New 2024 Baylor Football Uniforms Revealed MBB Co-Associate Head Coach Alvin Brooks III Takes Kentucky (AHC) Job Baylor Lands Duke PG Jeremy Roach from the Transfer Portal DBR: Friday, April 19th, 2024 Most Read NIL Hurts College Athletics. Here’s How We Fix It Stadium Views: Thoughts on the McLane Stadium Experience and Gold Out One fan’s thoughts on some of the most commented-on issues from McLane Stadium yesterday, as well as the Gold Out and how it could be successful. Chorus FanPosts Masthead Community Guidelines Facebook Twitter YouTube Horizontal - White Contact Have a News Tip? Browse Blogs SB Nation Masthead Company Blog Blog Openings Editorial Ethics and Guidelines Vox Media Vox Media Vox Media logo. Terms of Use Privacy Notice Cookie Policy Cookie Settings Licensing FAQ Accessibility Platform Status Advertise with us Jobs @ Vox Media © 2025 Vox Media , LLC. All Rights Reserved Gambling Problem? Call 1-800-GAMBLER ( 1-800-426-2537 ). Hope is here. GamblingHelpLineMA.org or call (800) 327-5050 for 24/7 support (MA). Visit www.mdgamblinghelp.org (MD). Call 877-8HOPE-NY or text HOPENY (467369) (NY). 21+ (18+ D.C.) and present in select states (for KS, in affiliation with Kansas Star Casino). Call 1-888-789-7777 or visit ccpg.org/chat (CT) or visit FanDuel.com/RG . Share this story Twitter Facebook