Brad Pitt wins best supporting actor Oscar and takes on Trump in speech | Oscars 2020 | The Guardian Skip to main content Skip to navigation Close dialogue 1 / 1 Next image Previous image Toggle caption Skip to navigation Print subscriptions Newsletters Sign in US US edition UK edition Australia edition Europe edition International edition The Guardian - Back to home The Guardian News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Show more Hide expanded menu News View all News US news US politics World news Climate crisis Middle East Ukraine Soccer Business Environment Tech Science Newsletters Wellness Opinion View all Opinion The Guardian view Columnists Letters Opinion videos Cartoons Sport View all Sport Soccer NFL Tennis MLB MLS NBA WNBA NHL F1 Golf Culture View all Culture Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Lifestyle View all Lifestyle Wellness Fashion Food Recipes Love & sex Home & garden Health & fitness Family Travel Money Search input google-search Search Support us Print subscriptions Newsletters Download the app Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing About Us The Guardian app Video Podcasts Pictures Inside the Guardian Guardian Weekly Crosswords Wordiply Corrections Search input google-search Search Search jobs Digital Archive Guardian Licensing About Us Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games Brad Pitt with his Oscar. Photograph: Étienne Laurent/EPA View image in fullscreen Brad Pitt with his Oscar. Photograph: Étienne Laurent/EPA Oscars 2020 This article is more than 5 years old Brad Pitt wins best supporting actor Oscar and takes on Trump in speech This article is more than 5 years old Pitt said he was ‘happy to ride’ on the coattails of Leonardo DiCaprio, who he performed alongside in Once Upon a Time in Hollywood Nine things we learned at the Oscars Peter Bradshaw: Parasite’s brilliant win is a portent of change Andrew Pulver Mon 10 Feb 2020 09.56 EST First published on Sun 9 Feb 2020 20.15 EST Share Brad Pitt has won the best supporting actor Oscar for his role as Cliff Booth in Once Upon a Time in Hollywood at the 92nd Academy Awards. Pitt saw off strong competition from Al Pacino and Joe Pesci for The Irishman, Tom Hanks for A Beautiful Day in the Neighborhood and Anthony Hopkins for The Two Popes. In the 1960s-set Once Upon a Time in Hollywood , directed by Quentin Tarantino, Pitt’s Booth is the easygoing stunt double for fading star Rick Dalton (Leonardo DiCaprio); Booth also encounters the notorious Manson “family” who are living outside Los Angeles at the Spahn Ranch, a former filming location. Pitt, 56, began his acceptance speech with a reference to the impeachment trial of Donald Trump and its blocking of John Bolton’s testimony . “They told me I only have 45 seconds up here,” said Pitt, “… which is 45 seconds more than the senate gave John Bolton this week.” Renée Zellweger wins best actress Oscar for Judy Read more The actor dedicated his award to “my kids, who colour everything I do – I adore you” before paying tribute to Tarantino, whom he described as “an original … one of a kind. The film industry would be a much drier place without you.” He also gave a shout-out to his parents, to stunt people, and to his co-star DiCaprio, on whose coattails he said he was “happy to ride … the view’s fantastic”. Pitt has already won a string of prizes for the role, including best supporting actor at the Baftas, Golden Globes and Screen Actors Guild. This is his first Oscar for acting, having previously been nominated for best supporting actor for 12 Monkeys and best actor for The Curious Case of Benjamin Button and Moneyball. However, his work as a producer has seen him win a best picture Oscar for 12 Years a Slave and earn best picture nominations for Moneyball and The Big Short. Explore more on these topics Oscars 2020 Oscars Brad Pitt Once Upon a Time in Hollywood Quentin Tarantino Leonardo DiCaprio Awards and prizes news Share Reuse this content Most viewed Most viewed Film Books Music Art & design TV & radio Stage Classical Games News Opinion Sport Culture Lifestyle Original reporting and incisive analysis, direct from the Guardian every morning Sign up for our email About us Help Complaints & corrections SecureDrop Work for us Privacy policy Cookie policy Terms & conditions Contact us All topics All writers Digital newspaper archive Tax strategy Facebook YouTube Instagram LinkedIn Newsletters Advertise with us Guardian Labs Search jobs Back to top © 2025 Guardian News & Media Limited or its affiliated companies. All rights reserved. (dcr)