Sepp Kuss is first American to win Tour de France stage in 10 years - NBC Sports Skip navigation Search Query Submit Search MLB NFL NBA NHL NASCAR Premier League College Football Men’s College Basketball Horse Racing Top News Yankees at Orioles prediction: Odds, expert picks, starting pitchers, betting trends, and stats for April 30 NBC Sports Bet Staff , NBC Sports Bet Staff , Cardinals at Reds prediction: Odds, expert picks, starting pitchers and betting trends for April 30 - Game 1 NBC Sports Bet Staff , NBC Sports Bet Staff , Madrid Open players took blackout in stride, enjoyed time away from cellphones Associated Press , Associated Press , Top Clips ‘Surprised’ Morikawa opted for caddie change Highlights: PGA Professional Championship, Round 3 How Judkins fits in Browns’ crowded backfield Trending Teams Washington Commanders St. Louis Cardinals New York Yankees All Sports All Sports NFL MLB NBA NHL Soccer Motors NASCAR College Football Olympics Golf Fantasy Sports WNBA Men’s College Basketball Women’s College Basketball Paralympics Tennis Horse Racing Cycling On Her Turf Figure Skating Dog Show Rugby Navy All-American Bowl WWE Rotoworld Rotoworld Fantasy Home Betting Home Fantasy Football NFL Player News Matthew Berry Fantasy Baseball MLB Player News Fantasy Basketball NBA Player News WNBA Player News PFT Golf Channel Watch Podcasts Peacock Betting Home Milan Cortina 2026 Olympics Telemundo Deportes GolfNow GolfPass NBC Sports NOW SportsEngine NBC Sports Press Box Search Query Submit Search MLB NFL NBA NHL NASCAR Premier League College Football Men’s College Basketball Horse Racing Top News Yankees at Orioles prediction: Odds, expert picks, starting pitchers, betting trends, and stats for April 30 NBC Sports Bet Staff , NBC Sports Bet Staff , Cardinals at Reds prediction: Odds, expert picks, starting pitchers and betting trends for April 30 - Game 1 NBC Sports Bet Staff , NBC Sports Bet Staff , Madrid Open players took blackout in stride, enjoyed time away from cellphones Associated Press , Associated Press , Top Clips ‘Surprised’ Morikawa opted for caddie change Highlights: PGA Professional Championship, Round 3 How Judkins fits in Browns’ crowded backfield Trending Teams Washington Commanders St. Louis Cardinals New York Yankees All Sports NFL MLB NBA NHL Soccer Motors NASCAR College Football Olympics Golf Fantasy Sports WNBA Men’s College Basketball Women’s College Basketball Paralympics Tennis Horse Racing Cycling On Her Turf Figure Skating Dog Show Rugby Navy All-American Bowl WWE Rotoworld Fantasy Home Betting Home Fantasy Football NFL Player News Matthew Berry Fantasy Baseball MLB Player News Fantasy Basketball NBA Player News WNBA Player News PFT Golf Channel Watch Podcasts Favorites Favorites Profile Peacock Betting Home Milan Cortina 2026 Olympics Telemundo Deportes GolfNow GolfPass NBC Sports NOW SportsEngine NBC Sports Press Box Profile Login or Create Profile Profile Login or Create Profile Favorites Menu Favorites Sign up to follow your favorites on all your devices. Sign up Sepp Kuss is first American to win Tour de France stage in 10 years By OlympicTalk , By OlympicTalk Published July 11, 2021 10:35 AM Facebook Twitter Email YBlX262Q_sv3 July 11, 2021 12:35 PM Sepp Kuss triumphed in Stage 15 to become the first American stage winner at the Tour de France since 2011. ANDORRA LA VELLA, Andorra — Sepp Kuss couldn’t suppress a wide grin as he raced toward the finish line to become the first American in 10 years to win a stage at the Tour de France. After winning Sunday’s grueling 15th stage, Kuss threw his sunglasses into the crowd and put his arms in the air before covering his face, succumbing to emotion and exhaustion. Tyler Farrar had been the last American to win a stage at cycling’s biggest race in 2011. “It’s incredible, I’m lost for words,” Kuss said. The 26-year-old Colorado native left it late to make his move in the punishing 118-mile ride from Ceret at the foothills of the Pyrenees to the tiny mountain-bound nation of Andorra. TOUR DE FRANCE: Standings | TV, Live Stream Schedule “This was Sepp’s day,” said Jumbo-Visma teammate Wout van Aert , who helped put Kuss in a position to break. “He lives in Andorra and he was looking forward to this stage.” The American attacked going up the 1,796-meter Col de Beixalis and maintained his hard-fought advantage over Spanish veteran Alejandro Valverde , who finished 23 seconds behind. “To be honest, I was suffering a lot in this Tour de France. I didn’t feel like I had the spice in the legs. Today I knew it was finishing where I live, so I was motivated for the stage,” Kuss said. Col de Beixalis was the steepest climb in a day of many ascents in the Pyrenees. Kuss’ average speed going up was 12.7 mph, and 36 mph going down, where he clocked a maximum speed of 50 mph. “I don’t ride to Col de Beixalis much in training because it’s so hard, but I knew if I had a good gap, I’d stay away till the finish. Wout van Aert did a great job for me in the valley. It means a lot to me to win a Tour de France stage,” Kuss said. Dutch rider Wout Poels finished third and took over the polka dot jersey for the best climber. “It’s obviously going to be a great battle for the mountains jersey,” Poels said. Race leader Tadej Pogacar enjoyed an uneventful day and remained on course for his second overall victory. The defending champion was only questioned toward the end of the stage as Jonas Vingegaard followed Ben O’Connor ’s example with two attacks. Pogacar answered both without any problems and increased his overall lead to more than five minutes over Rigoberto Uran and Vingegaard. “I felt good, and I wasn’t worried at all about the last climb. I just needed to follow the other riders there, as I did,” Pogacar said. “My team did a great job at protecting me all day long, providing me with everything I needed. The key today was to keep myself hydrated, to have water available all the time, and my teammates did that job perfectly.” Guillaume Martin , who was second overall ahead of the stage, dropped back to ninth. Before the final tussles on Col de Beixalis, riders had to overcome the 2,408-meter Port d’Envalira, where Nairo Quintana made a break after a strong headwind forced riders across the road. Quintana was first to the summit before he was hauled back. Quintana tried again on Col de Beixalis before Kuss took over. Nacer Bouhanni , who had been suffering since a big crash on Stage 13, quit after the intermediate sprint with 124.5 kilometers remaining. The rest of the riders have a chance to recover on the tour’s second rest day Monday before more climbs await on Tuesday. OlympicTalk is on Apple News . Favorite us! Related Stories The Ivy League school that’s intertwined with the Winter Olympics Nick Zaccardi , Nick Zaccardi , Katie Ledecky, Bobby Finke, Caeleb Dressel enter last Tyr Pro Swim Series meet before nationals Nick Zaccardi , Nick Zaccardi , Jimmer Fredette named USA Basketball 3x3 men’s national team managing director Nick Zaccardi , Nick Zaccardi , April Ross returns to USA Volleyball as beach national teams head of coaching Nick Zaccardi , Nick Zaccardi , How to watch Grand Slam Track Miami 2025: Stream info, schedule, preview Nick Zaccardi , Nick Zaccardi , London Marathon: Tigst Assefa breaks women’s only world record, Sabastian Sawe wins men’s title Nick Zaccardi , Nick Zaccardi , Stay in the Know Subscribe to our Newsletter and Alerts Subscribe Sports College Basketball Cycling College Football Figure Skating Golf Horse Racing MLB Motor Sports NASCAR NBA NFL NHL Olympics Soccer Tennis WNBA Fantasy Fantasy Baseball Fantasy Basketball Fantasy Football Stream & Podcast Clips & Highlights Sports Podcasts Stream on Peacock Watch Live NBC Sports on YouTube Apps NBC Sports iOS NBC Sports Android Peacock TV iOS Peacock TV Android Local Coverage NBC Sports Bay Area NBC Sports Boston NBC Sports Philadelphia twitter instagram facebook Ad Choices Advertise Careers Closed Captioning FAQ NBC Sports Store Press Box NEW Terms of Use (Updated June 28, 2023) Privacy Policy CA Notice Cookie Settings A Division of NBCUniversal . DISCLAIMER: This site and the products offered are for entertainment purposes only, and there is no gambling offered on this site. This service is intended for adult audiences. No guarantees are made for any specific outcome. If you or someone you know has a gambling problem, please call 1-800-GAMBLER. Ⓒ 2024 NBC Universal Close Ad