Assassin's Creed Valhalla Title Update 1.7.0 releases tomorrow, is 6.3GB, and here is its full list of changes DSOGaming Search Primary Menu Skip to content Home News Screens Videos Patches Mods PC Games System Requirements PC Performance Analyses Reviews Contact About Us Search for: Patches Assassin’s Creed Valhalla Title Update 1.7.0 releases tomorrow, is 6.3GB, and here is its full list of changes February 20, 2023 John Papadopoulos 18 Comments Ubisoft has announced that Title Update 1.7.0 for Assassin’s Creed Valhalla will release tomorrow, February 21st. Furthermore, the team revealed its complete changelog, which you can find below. Going into more details, Title Update 1.7.0 is 6.3GB in size on PC. According to the release notes, this patch resolves a number of issues that plagued the game. As always, Ubisoft Connect and Epic Games Store will download this patch the next time you launch their clients. Below you can also find its complete changelog. Assassin’s Creed Valhalla Title Update 1.7.0 Release Notes WORLD Addressed: Resolved most of the rare instances where Light-Fingered skill prevented the pickup of key items. Eivor’s hair can clip through the hood after completing an Animus Anomaly. ARMORY & INVENTORY Addressed: Previously purchased items are missing from player inventory. The Raven Clan Crew outfit cannot be enhanced or upgraded to a higher quality. The total number of Opals in the inventory doesn’t update when picking up an Opal in the world. MISCELLANEOUS Addressed: Resolved the error that occurs when trying to claim the Weekly Free Item. Gear packs still appear in the store when the content of the pack is already owned. Items incorrectly appear as owned in some situations. Korean language cannot be applied via Steam Language tab. It is possible to lose Helix Credits when purchasing the Twilight Set if 5/5 pieces of gear are already owned. Issues with pricing of Helix Store items when redeeming pieces of a full set. On Xbox, when buying Helix Credits through the store, they are not correctly added to the player inventory. In-game pop-ups no longer appear for Shared History and The Last Chapter when launching into the game. John Papadopoulos John is the founder and Editor in Chief at DSOGaming. He is a PC gaming fan and highly supports the modding and indie communities. Before creating DSOGaming, John worked on numerous gaming websites. While he is a die-hard PC gamer, his gaming roots can be found on consoles. John loved – and still does – the 16-bit consoles, and considers SNES to be one of the best consoles. Still, the PC platform won him over consoles. That was mainly due to 3DFX and its iconic dedicated 3D accelerator graphics card, Voodoo 2. John has also written a higher degree thesis on the “The Evolution of PC graphics cards.” Contact: Email Assassin's Creed Valhalla Ubisoft Post navigation Previous Post New gameplay trailers for Redfall, Witchfire, Tchia, The Invincible & Solium Infernum Next Post NVIDIA RTX 4090 runs Atomic Heart with over 85fps at Native 4K/Max Settings Load Comments Search for: Popular Stories Oblivion Remastered Benchmarks & PC Performance Analysis Clair Obscur: Expedition 33 Mod removes the 30FPS lock from its cut-scenes This Oblivion Remastered Mod brings back the colors of the original How does Clair Obscur: Expedition 33 run at 4K/Epic Settings? Clair Obscur: Expedition 33 PC Performance Analysis Here are 15 minutes of new leaked gameplay from Battlefield 6 La Quimera has been quietly delayed, no new release date Remedy’s FBC: Firebreak will be released on June 17th New trailers for The Outer Worlds 2 focus on combat & weapons New Doom: The Dark Ages Gameplay Trailer Gives Us a Glimpse at the Cosmic Realm PC Games News, Screenshots, Trailers & More Home News/Screens/Videos News Screen-News Video-News Articles PC Performance Analyses First Impressions Articles Special User’s Articles Reviews Previews Patches Mods Best Mods Articles PC Games System Requirements Editorial Interviews DSOGaming Terms Of Use Contact Us Privacy Policy © 2025 DSOGaming | DSOGaming.com Manage Cookie Settings