AI personal assistant, Nimblr, integrates with Amazon Alexa to provide better services to users Twitter Facebook Linkedin Youtube Toggle navigation HOME Technology Startup Contact Lists News & Events Policy Markets Collaboration Prevention Medtech NETWORK SOLUTIONS Dr. HEMPEL CONTACT US Home Technology AI personal assistant, Nimblr, integrates with Amazon Alexa to provide better services to users AI personal assistant, Nimblr, integrates with Amazon Alexa to provide better services to users July 20, 2018 July 20, 2018 , Collaboration , Technology , Artificial Intelligence Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linkedin Share on Google+ Share on Xing AI personal assistant, Nimblr, integrates with Amazon Alexa to provide better services to users Nimblr AI aimed at automating and simplifying a variety of tedious hospital tasks. Patients can interact easily with the intelligent AI that works better with cloud-based Alexa. Artificial Intelligence is playing a crucial role in solving the challenges of healthcare. The technology aims at bridging the gap between traditional healthcare practices. Doctors and physicians are overcoming the challenges of eHealth with the advancement of AI-powered medical devices. Nimblr AI is an Artificial Intelligence assistant for medical front-desk automation. Nimblr AI boosts and improves efficiency in operation. Holly focuses on improving the lives of doctors and patients in an efficient manner. AI personal assistant leverages reduced workload and high performance of healthcare practitioners. Medical office AI assistant Nimblr has now partnered with Amazon Alexa . This is a major boost in the health sector where patients will not be required to visit hospitals and book appointments. Patients will now use voice commands to reschedule and book appointments thus minimizing picking calls at the front desk where much time is used and other calls are missed. Nimblr Holly AI assistant will automate appointments cycle that sometimes brings no shows costing the health industry a lot of money. Holly will be able to reduce the many challenges that staff that work in the front desk face. It will reach patients over the phone while the front desk personnel can be doing other stuff that will add value to the sector. Holly will ensure the calendars are well organized and fully booked without leaving any gaps that personnel’s can easily forget. Email exchanges consume a lot of time and also time-consuming conversations on the phone. The personnel will be offloaded ‘things to worry list’ that tampers with the calendar but with Holly, all these problems have been solved. Holly makes conversations with patients through SMS in a very friendly manner where it confirms appointments and also reschedules them. It uses Microsoft Outlook, Google calendar or any electronic device that records the health system. The institution will not be required to download any app. All is needed is to allow Holly access calendar of the hospital and give it instructions on when to call and when to rest. The services are now available through EHRs thanks to Nimblr and Alexa integration. Dr. Nadeem Vaidya who is a Retinal surgeon at retinal OC said that “We use Nimblr in our practice. Nimblr has reduced our no-show rate by almost 72 percent. We like to innovate and differentiate our practice through technology, so we are very excited to try the Nimblr integration.” In-home assistants are the future of our interaction with patients and using Alexa and Nimblr together will be a big step forward in making the lives of our patients and staff easier. In an interview Andres Rodriguez who is CTO of Nimblr and a 15-year veteran of the Stanford Research Institute and holds a Master’s in Computer Science from Stanford said “The no-show patient rate is estimated between 10-30 percent and 72 percent of patients who don’t show up never reschedule.” Our customers have seen Nimblr help cut no-shows by 51 percent or more almost instantly by giving patients a really easy way to book and reschedule. Adding Alexa voice commands to our repertoire gives patients another convenient avenue to make a medical appointment without having to use the phone.” Image credit: www.nimblr.ai Related Articles + Samsung LABGEO IB10 – Lab in the pocket March 25, 2017 September 7, 2017 , Technology , Medical Device A product review It’s a long way and even bored to think about diagnostics. Standing in queues, providing blood... + Now print your hand | 3D printed prosthetics June 14, 2017 September 7, 2017 , Technology , Medical Device Imagine, losing a limb in an accident and not being able to do simplest of the works. Thankfully, 3D... + Now robots want to be your nurse and friend | AI: A cultural perspective June 14, 2017 September 2, 2017 , Technology , Robotic Health Robotic health and associated AI has been in the news for a long time. Robots have been designed to... + Can a mobile app cure depression?  New AI apps will surprise you! October 11, 2018 October 10, 2018 , Startup , Technology , Mobile Health Technology Mobile app cure depression There has been a ton of research and experimentation done to attempt and understand mental... + Artificial intelligence discovers new drugs | AI for drug discovery October 12, 2018 October 10, 2018 , Medtech , Technology , Artificial Intelligence AI for drug discovery Artificial Intelligence has taken this world by storm, and medicine is no alien to the... + Amazon’s Alexa in healthcare | Your caretaker and friend August 7, 2018 August 7, 2018 , Technology , Artificial Intelligence Amazon’s Alexa in healthcare When anyone is suffering from a health problem, they will go to a hospital. But... + Ambient Assisted Living – a technological revolution for better senior living June 16, 2017 September 2, 2017 , Technology , Telehealth The United Nations’ (UN) Department of Economic and Social Affairs (EC-ESA) forecasts that by 2050, the population of older... + Apple’s secret work on diabetes sensors June 16, 2017 September 26, 2017 , Technology , Medical Device Headquartered in Cupertino, California, Apple is American technology company that was founded by Steve Jobs, Steve Wozniak, and Ronald... The future of green hospitals | Developing sustainable & energy efficient hospital infrastructure Bayer to discontinue sale of Essure Birth Control Implant in the US 0 Comments Leave a reply Click here to cancel the reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment Name * Email * Website Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. Sign me up for the newsletter! Latest The critical role of 5G transforming digital healthcare | Why its decisive? July 16, 2019 26 Innovative digital health, eHealth, mHealth startups in Sweden July 15, 2019 AT&T-OneLife collaborate to release LTE-M connection smartwatch July 2, 2019 Mobile apps making hospital visits less scary for children | Digital apps for pediatric care June 21, 2019 Top 10 Doctor-Patient platforms in India | Most successful digital health business model in India June 7, 2019 Digitization of preventive health care | The future of Medicine June 3, 2019 European Health Catapult acceleration program invites applications from MedTech, BioTech startups June 3, 2019 Newsletter For latest Health IT news, partnerships & Events * indicates required Name I am * I am a startup founder I am a Health IT expert I am a Medtech CEO Email Address * Leave this field empty if you're human: Digital Health Categories Collaboration Contact Lists Markets Medtech News & Events Policy Prevention Startup Technology Categories Collaboration Contact Lists Markets Medtech News & Events Policy Prevention Startup Technology Archives July 2019 June 2019 May 2019 April 2019 March 2019 February 2019 January 2019 December 2018 November 2018 October 2018 September 2018 August 2018 July 2018 June 2018 May 2018 April 2018 March 2018 February 2018 January 2018 December 2017 November 2017 October 2017 September 2017 August 2017 July 2017 June 2017 March 2017 Dr. Hempel Network HOME Technology Startup Contact Lists News & Events Policy Markets Collaboration Prevention Medtech NETWORK SOLUTIONS Dr. HEMPEL CONTACT US Quick Links Legal Privacy Contact Us Jobs Sponsoring Press Releases © 2018 Dr. Hempel Digital Health Network Dr. Hempel Digital Health Network is a participant in the Amazon Services LLC Associates Program, an affiliate advertising program designed to provide a means for sites to earn advertising fees by advertising and linking to amazon.com. Log in with Facebook or Log in with your credentials Sign in Remember me Lost your password? Forgot your details? Reset Password I remember my details