Wimbledon 2013 Draw Results: Full List of Seedings and Brackets Bleacher Report NFL Draft NFL NBA NHL CFB Shop Play Betting B/R Sports on Max 04:50 Featured Video NBA Comps for Top Bigs 👥 Tennis Wimbledon 2013 Draw Results: Full List of Seedings and Brackets Mike  Chiari Jun 8, 2018 Rafael Nadal won the French Open for a record eighth time at Roland Garros just a couple of weeks ago but he didn't have long to celebrate his victory. Wimbledon is nearly upon us as the draw was completed on Friday morning. The draw tends to be just as interesting as some of the matches at times. The media presence is usually immense and there is always a ton of buzz surrounding the event, as seen in this photo provided by Wimbledon on Twitter: While there is probably an exact science that goes into creating these brackets, sometimes it feels as though there is no rhyme or reason. The fact that Nadal and Roger Federer will have to meet in the quarterfinals should they both advance that far is a glaring example that the seedings don't necessarily favor the best players. TOP NEWS NFL Power Rankings for Every Team After the 2025 NFL Draft Bleacher Report 15h 7 2025 NFL Draft Picks We Wish We Would Have Seen Bleacher Report 15h 2025 NBA Mock Draft with Lottery Simulation Sending Cooper Flagg to Eastern Conference Bleacher Report 15h Serena Williams ' French Open title certainly seemed to help her more than Nadal as she is the No. 1 seed on the women's side and is surely favored to win Wimbledon for the second consecutive year and third time overall. With several surprises in both draws, however, there is no question that Wimbledon will provide an intriguing tournament over the next couple weeks. Here is everything you need to know about the men's and women's singles draws, including which players you should keep an eye on moving forward. Men's Seeds Seed Player Nationality 1 Novak Djokovic SRB 2 Andy Murray GBR 3 Roger Federer SUI 4 David Ferrer ESP 5 Rafael Nadal ESP 6 Jo-Wilfried Tsonga FRA 7 Tomas Berdych CZE 8 Juan Martin Del Potro ARG 9 Richard Gasquet FRA 10 Marin Cilic CRO 11 Stanislas Wawrinka SUI 12 Kei Nishikori JAP 13 Tommy Haas GER 14 Janko Tipsarevic SRB 15 Nicolas Almagro ESP 16 Philipp Kohlschreiber GER 17 Milos Raonic CAN 18 John Isner USA 19 Gilles Simon FRA 20 Mikhail Youzhny RUS 21 Sam Querrey USA 22 Juan Monaco ARG 23 Andreas Seppi ITA 24 Jerzy Janowicz POL 25 Benoit Paire FRA 26 Alexandr Dolgopolov UKR 27 Kevin Anderson RSA 28 Jeremy Chardy FRA 29 Grigor Dimitrov BUL 30 Fabio Fognini ITA 31 Julien Benneteau FRA 32 Tommy Robredo ESP *Courtesy of Wimbledon.com Women's Seeds Seed Player Nationality 1 Serena Williams USA 2 Victoria Azarenka BLR 3 Maria Sharapova RUS 4 Agnieszka Radwanska POL 5 Sara Errani ITA 6 Li Na CHN 7 Angelique Kerber GER 8 Petra Kvitova CZE 9 Caroline Wozniacki DEN 10 Maria Kirilenko RUS 11 Roberta Vinci ITA 12 Ana Ivanovic SRB 13 Nadia Petrova RUS 14 Samantha Stosur AUS 15 Marion Bartoli FRA 16 Jelena Jankovic SRB 17 Sloane Stephens USA 18 Dominika Cibulkova SVK 19 Carla Suarez Navarro ESP 20 Kirsten Flipkens BEL 21 Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova RUS 22 Sorana Cirstea ROU 23 Sabine Lisicki GER 24 Peng Shuai CHN 25 Ekaterina Makarova RUS 26 Varvara Lepchenko USA 27 Lucie Safarova CZE 28 Tamira Paszek AUT 29 Alize Cornet FRA 30 Mona Barthel GER 31 Romina Oprandi SUI 32 Klara Zakopalova CZE *Courtesy of Wimbledon.com Men's Bracket Women's Bracket Top Seeds to Watch Novak Djokovic The No. 1 player in the world tends to receive perks that others don't, and that appears to be the case for Novak Djokovic at Wimbledon. There is no such thing as an easy route to the final in a Grand Slam tournament, but Djokovic got lucky due to the fact that Nadal is seeded No. 5 at Wimbledon, according to Chris Fowler of ESPN. There is no denying that is the case as Djokovic won't have to face one of his "Big Four" counterparts until the final at the earliest. There are obviously some pitfalls on his side of the draw in the form of David Ferrer, Juan Martin Del Potro and Tomas Berdych, but if the 2011 Wimbledon champion plays up to his potential, he'll be sitting in the final and waiting for his first true challenge to arrive. Serena Williams Serena is the most dominant player in women's tennis right now and perhaps ever, so she is more than deserving of the top overall seed bestowed upon her. Williams has won three of the past four Grand Slam titles as well as gold in both singles and doubles at the London Olympics last year. At this point, it seems as though she cannot be stopped. While Serena has a tricky draw with the likes of Maria Kirilenko, Angelique Kerber and Samantha Stosur in her quarter, as well as Agnieszka Radwanska in her half, she should be golden. The only two women who are polished and powerful enough to beat her are Maria Sharapova and Victoria Azarenka, but they won't factor in until the final. Andy Murray After missing the French Open due to a back injury, Andy Murray is back in the mix at Wimbledon. Despite his absence from the latest Grand Slam, Murray's ranking was not affected as he enters Wimbledon at No. 2. It's difficult to call that an advantage, though, as he has been drawn into the same half as both Nadal and Federer, according to Sky Sports. Murray made huge strides last year as he won Olympic gold at Wimbledon and also won his first Grand Slam at the U.S. Open. If he is going to add to his resume, though, he will have to run through an extremely difficult gauntlet. With the home crowd supporting him every step of the way, however, Murray has something that the other players don't. Maria Sharapova Maria Sharapova has had a hugely successful career already with one title at each Grand Slam event, but if not for the presence of Serena, she could very well have doubled the amount of Grand Slam titles. Williams isn't going anywhere in the immediate future, though, so Sharapova must figure out a way to beat her if she is going to reign supreme once again. Sharapova is seeded No. 3, which may be unfair since she beat No. 2-seeded Victoria Azarenka at Roland Garros. Whatever the case, it seems as though Sharapova and Azarenka are on a semi-final collision course for a chance to meet Serena in the final. Sharapova beat Williams to win Wimbledon way back in 2004 and she certainly hopes to do it again this year. Rafael Nadal Apparently the ATP doesn't believe in rewarding players for Grand Slam victories as Rafa is actually seeded worse at Wimbledon despite winning the French Open. That stems from the fact that Murray is back in action, but it's an absolute farce that the convoluted rankings system allowed David Ferrer to surpass Nadal even though Nadal beat him handily in the final at Roland Garros. Now Nadal may have to go through Federer, Murray and Djokovic to win it all, according to tennis analyst Greg Rusedski. If anyone can accomplish the feat, it is certainly Nadal. Rafa should be the No. 4 seed at the very least, though, which would have set up a much more manageable road of Djokovic in the semis and either Murray or Federer in the final. Although grass isn't Nadal's best surface, it will be time to start viewing him as one of the greatest grass-court players of all time if he is able to win his third Wimbledon title this year. Roger Federer While Federer may not really have a leg to stand on after getting thoroughly outplayed and eliminated by Jo-Wilfried Tsonga in the French Open, being the No. 3 seed and having to face both Nadal and Murray simply to get to the final is a tough pill to swallow. A lot of fans are starting write off Federer, but they were doing the same last year until he responded by winning Wimbledon for an incredible seventh time. Fed has a chance to surpass Pete Sampras and become the all-time winningest player in Wimbledon history, but this could be his toughest road yet. Both Nadal and Djokovic are playing incredible tennis and Murray has come into his own as well. Unless Federer comes through with a number of vintage performances, it is very tough to envision him winning Wimbledon again this year. Follow @MikeChiari on Twitter 04:50 NBA Comps for Top Bigs 👥 TOP NEWS Post-Draft NFL Power Rankings Bleacher Report 15h NFL Draft Picks We Wanted to See 👀 Bleacher Report 15h Latest Projections and Pro Comps ✍️ Bleacher Report 15h Ranking Top 10 Free Agents Post-Draft Bleacher Report 15h Way-Too-Early 2026 Mock Draft Bleacher Report 1d TRENDING ON B/R Bleacher Report • 11h Russini Says She Never Got Intel Browns Ranked Shedeur Sanders High on Draft Board Bleacher Report • 1d WWE Raw Results, Winners, Live Grades, Reaction, Highlights from April 28 ⚔️ Jey, Logan Paul on collision course  🍿 Ripley and Perez put on a show 📲 Tap for full results and analysis Bleacher Report • 12h Shedeur Sanders Reportedly Was Top QB on Giants' Board After Cam Ward Ahead of Draft Bleacher Report • 1d 1 Trade Every NBA Playoff Team Wishes It Could Make Right Now Bleacher Report • 8h Michael Porter Jr. Not Suspended for Leaving Bench During Nuggets-Clippers Skirmish Michael Porter Jr. not suspended Game 5 for leaving bench during skirmish TRENDING ON B/R Bleacher Report • 11h Russini Says She Never Got Intel Browns Ranked Shedeur Sanders High on Draft Board Bleacher Report • 1d WWE Raw Results, Winners, Live Grades, Reaction, Highlights from April 28 ⚔️ Jey, Logan Paul on collision course  🍿 Ripley and Perez put on a show 📲 Tap for full results and analysis Bleacher Report • 12h Shedeur Sanders Reportedly Was Top QB on Giants' Board After Cam Ward Ahead of Draft Bleacher Report • 1d 1 Trade Every NBA Playoff Team Wishes It Could Make Right Now Bleacher Report • 8h Michael Porter Jr. Not Suspended for Leaving Bench During Nuggets-Clippers Skirmish Michael Porter Jr. not suspended Game 5 for leaving bench during skirmish Bleacher Report About Advertise Contact Us Get Help Careers Sitemap Community Guidelines Privacy Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Terms Of Use AdChoices B/R Sports on MAX B/R Creators Program Copyright © 2025 Bleacher Report, Inc. A Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All Rights Reserved.