Instagram's former CEO testifies Zuckerberg thought the app was a ‘threat’ to Facebook Engadget Login News AI Apps Computing Entertainment Mobile Science Social media Space Streaming Transportation Reviews Smartphones Laptops and PCs Gaming Headphones Wearables Audio gear Photography Tablets Home Buying guides Best VPNs Best laptops Best headphones Best smart home Best gaming Best health and fitness Best accessories Best lifestyle tech Nintendo Switch 2 Nintendo Switch 2 pre-orders Nintendo Switch 2 Direct announcements Gaming Nintendo PC gaming PlayStation Xbox Playdate Big tech Amazon Apple Google Meta Microsoft Samsung Elon Musk Deals Apple deals Deals under $50 Entertainment TV and movies Music Streaming YouTube Science Space Robotics Cybersecurity VPN More Guides Best streaming services Best wireless earbuds Best laptops Best power banks Best robot vacuums Best Mint alternatives Sections News Reviews Buying guides Nintendo Switch 2 Gaming Big tech Deals Entertainment Science Cybersecurity More Guides Login Advertisement Switch 2 pre-orders live, backordered Perplexity's iOS app gets an AI voice Retro UI options return to PS5 Andor season 2 review Last chance for Apple TV+ $9 deal Read full article Social Media Instagram's former CEO testifies Zuckerberg thought the app was a ‘threat’ to Facebook Facebook’s acquisition of Instagram is central to the FTC’s case against Meta. karissa bell Senior Editor Tue, Apr 22, 2025, 1:21 PM · 2 min read 0 NurPhoto via Getty Images Facebook acquired Instagram in 2012 for $1 billion, but tensions between Mark Zuckerberg and the app’s founders persisted for years afterward. On Tuesday, Instagram’s former CEO and cofounder Kevin Systrom took the stand in Meta’s antitrust trial in Washington, D.C. and offered a firsthand account of how Zuckerberg viewed the photo-sharing app as a “threat” to Facebook. Systrom, who ran Instagram until 2018, said that Zuckerberg slowed hiring and other investments into Instagram despite its success. Zuckerberg, Systrom testified, "believed we were a threat to their growth," and as a result "was not investing" in the photo-sharing app, according to testimony reported by The New York Times . As The Times notes, Instagram had only a fraction of the employees as Facebook even after reaching 1 billion users. "As the founder of Facebook, he felt a lot of emotion around which one was better, meaning Instagram or Facebook," Systrom reportedly said. Tensions between Instagram’s founders and Zuckerberg over company resources have been previously reported , but Systrom’s testimony is the first time he’s publicly spoken in detail about the issues that ultimately led him to resign from the company. On the stand Tuesday, Systrom said that Zuckerberg “believed we were hurting Facebook’s growth,” according to Bloomberg . Facebook’s acquisition of Instagram is central to the FTC’s case against Meta . The government has argued that Meta’s purchase of WhatsApp and Instagram were anticompetitive and that the social media company should be forced to divest the businesses. Systrom’s testimony comes a week after Zuckerberg took the stand and defended Meta’s $1 billion Instagram acquisition. However, a 2018 email from Zuckerberg that surfaced earlier in the trial showed that the Facebook founder was aware as early as 2018 that he could be forced to spin off the services into independent entities. Latest Stories Engadget Microsoft's Recall and improved Windows search start rolling out to Copilot+ AI PCs today Almost a year since Microsoft announced its controversial Recall feature, and after several delays, the company has finally started bringing it to Copilot+ AI PCs today. Engadget The best Apple deals you can get right now: Save on iPads, AirPods and Macs Score spring discounts on some of the latest Apple gear. Engadget ExpressVPN two-year subscriptions are on sale for 61 percent off Plus, you'll get four extra months for free. Engadget YouTube is testing its own version of AI Overviews Google is testing AI-generated highlight clip reels on YouTube, potentially expanding its AI overview toolset. Engadget Intel confirms layoffs as it tries to 'make engineers more productive' New Intel CEO Lip-Bu Tan is trying to turn around the company by making it more efficient and focusing on core products. Engadget Get two years of ProtonVPN for 64 percent off You’ll get 24 months of access to the Plus plan for only $86. Engadget Nintendo charges $20 for 'Mario Party Jamboree' and 'Kirby' Switch 2 upgrades It will cost you $20 to upgrade Kirby and the Forgotten Land and Super Mario Party Jamboree for the Switch 2. Engadget Apple may shift all US-bound iPhone production from China to India Apple may shift all of its US iPhone production from China to India in an effort to avoid Trump's tariffs, according to a report. Engadget Google's Pixel Buds Pro 2 are $50 off right now The Google Pixel Buds Pro 2 are on sale right now for $179 with a coupon code. That’s a discount of $50. Engadget Audio-Technica ATH-CKS50TW2 review: Long battery life and satisfying sound for $150 Audio-Technica's latest earbuds excel in two main areas at a lower price than the more premium competition. Engadget Pick up Apple's newest iPad while it's on sale for a record-low price A few colorways of the A16-powered, entry-level tablet have dropped to $320. Engadget OpenAI's Deep Research tool is coming to free accounts OpenAI is giving free ChatGPT users limited access to its Deep Research tool. Engadget Apple's M4 MacBook Air drops to a new record-low price Get it now for just $899. Engadget The best kitchen gadgets for 2025 Or, the devices that deserve spots on your counter and in your cabinets. Engadget Slate Auto unveils its US-made barebones electric pickup costing just $20,000 A company backed by Jeff Bezos, Slate Automotive, just came out of stealth mode to unveil its first EV, and it's incredibly interesting. Engadget Engadget Podcast: The death of 4chan (for now) This week, we're diving into Engadget's coverage from the 2025 New York Auto Show. Engadget The Morning After: The Switch 2 pre-order struggle The biggest news stories this morning:    Razer has a vertical mouse now, Duolingo will help you learn chess, Nintendo's messy Switch 2 preorder moment. Engadget The best couch co-op games for PC, Nintendo Switch, PS5 and Xbox Here are the best couch co-op games we’ve played across the Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 5, Xbox and PC. Engadget The best E Ink tablets for 2025 Here's a list of the best E ink tablets you can buy right now, as chosen by Engadget editors. Engadget Perplexity is building a browser in part to collect customer data for targeted ads Perplexity CEO Aravind Srinivas said the company is building a browser to track user activity and sell targeted advertisements. More Stories About Engadget Masthead About our Ads Advertise Licensing FAQ RSS Feed Sections Reviews Gear Gaming Entertainment Tomorrow Buying Guides Video Podcasts Deals Contribute Comment Guidelines Support Buying Guides Best laptop The best iPad Best Bluetooth speaker Best E Ink tablets Best wireless earbuds Best power banks Best gaming handhelds Subscribe to our newsletter: The Morning After - A twice-weekly dose of the news you need Please enter a valid email address Please select a newsletter Subscribe By subscribing, you are agreeing to Engadget's Terms and Privacy Policy . Follow Us © 2025 Yahoo. All rights reserved. About Us Reprints and Permissions Terms and Privacy Policy Privacy Dashboard Trademarks Advertise About Our Ads