All the Oscar Winners for Best Animated Feature × Skip to main content Open menu Search Click to Expand Search Input Billboard Billboard Search Click to Expand Search Input LOGIN Login Account Manage Account Log Out Account Search Click to Expand Search Input Charts Music Video Shop Awards Business Billboard Charts Music Video Shop Awards Business LOGIN Login Click to Expand Search Input Account Manage Account Log Out Account Billboard Hot 100 Latin Women In Music 21st Century Charts Honda Stage Women In Music Family Global News Español Open menu Search Click to Expand Search Input Billboard Billboard Search Click to Expand Search Input LOGIN Login Account Manage Account Log Out Account Search Click to Expand Search Input Charts Music Video Shop Awards Business Awards 03/2/2025 Here Are All the Oscar Winners for Best Animated Feature Flow became the first indie film ever to win in this category. By Paul Grein Paul Grein More Stories by Paul Zach Top Tops Shaboozey, Bailey Zimmerman & More to Win ACM Award for New Male Artist of the Year Harvey Fierstein to Receive 2025 Special Tony Award for Lifetime Achievement in the Theatre Here’s the Date of the 2026 Golden Globes View All 03/2/2025 Share on Facebook Share on X Share to Flipboard Share on Pinterest + additional share options added Share on Tumblr Share on Reddit Share on LinkedIn Share on Whats App Send an Email Print this article Post a Comment Gints Zilbalodis accepts the award for best animated feature film for 'Flow' onstage during the 97th annual Academy Awards at the Dolby Theatre in Hollywood, California, on March 2, 2025. Patrick T. Fallon/AFP via Getty Images Español Flow won the Oscar for best animated feature on Sunday (March 2), becoming the first indie film to win in this category. It beat The Wild Robot , Memoir of a Snail and sequels to two past winners in this category, Inside Out 2 ( Inside Out won in 2016) and Wallace & Gromit: Vengeance Most Fowl ( Wallace & Gromit in the Curse of the Were-Rabbit won in 2006). Animated films have a rich history at the Academy Awards. Walt Disney received a special award in 1938 for the previous year’s Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs , which was “recognized as a significant screen innovation which has charmed millions and pioneered a great new entertainment field for the motion picture cartoon.” Fifty years later, Richard Williams received a special achievement award for the animation direction of Who Framed Roger Rabbit . The film also won three competitive Oscars. But it wasn’t until 1991’s Beauty and the Beast that an animated film was nominated for best picture. Throughout the ’90s, the Oscars resisted adding a category for animated features, though John Lasseter received a special achievement award in 1996 “for his inspired leadership of the Pixar Toy Story team, resulting in the first feature-length computer-animated film.” In 2001, the Academy finally added a category for best animated feature, with Shrek becoming the first winner in 2002. While the first two Toy Story films were released before the introduction of the category, Toy Story 3 and Toy Story 4 both won in this category. ( Toy Story 5 is scheduled for release in June 2026.) Here’s a year-by-year recap of all the Oscar winners for best animated feature film. The years shown are the years of the awards presentation. 2002: Shrek Image Credit: ©DreamWorks/courtesy Everett Studio : PDI/DreamWorks Production; DreamWorks Oscar Went to : Aron Warner Film’s Other Oscar Wins : none Other Oscar Nods : adapted screenplay (written by Ted Elliott & Terry Rossio and Joe Stillman and Roger S.H. Schulman) Notes : Shrek was inducted into the National Film Registry in 2020. The soundtrack reached No. 28 on the Billboard 200. It contains two hits by Smash Mouth, the 1999 smash “All Star” and a remake of The Monkees’ “I’m a Believer” recorded specifically for the movie. 2003: Spirited Away Studio : Studio Ghibli Production; Buena Vista [Japan] Oscar Went to : Hayao Miyazaki Film’s Other Oscar Wins : none Other Oscar Nods : none Notes : Spirited Away was the first Japanese, hand-drawn and non-English language film to win in the category. Miyazaki won an honorary Oscar in 2014. The Academy called him “a master storyteller whose animated artistry has inspired filmmakers and audiences around the world.” 2004: Finding Nemo Studio : Pixar Animation Studios Production; Buena Vista Oscar Went to : Andrew Stanton Film’s Other Oscar Wins : none Other Oscar Nods : original score (Thomas Newman); sound editing (Gary Rydstrom and Michael Silvers); original screenplay (screenplay by Andrew Stanton, Bob Peterson and David Reynolds; original story by Andrew Stanton). Notes : The soundtrack, Finding Nemo: Ocean Favorites , reached No. 156 on the Billboard 200. 2005: The Incredibles Image Credit: Walt Disney/courtesy Everett Collection Studio : Pixar Animation Studios Production; Buena Vista Oscar Went to : Brad Bird Film’s Other Oscar Wins : sound editing (Michael Silvers and Randy Thom) Other Oscar Nods : sound mixing (Randy Thom, Gary A. Rizzo and Doc Kane); original screenplay (Brad Bird). 2006: Wallace & Gromit in The Curse of the Were-Rabbit Studio : Aardman Animations Limited Production; DreamWorks Animation SKG. [United Kingdom] Oscar Went to : Nick Park and Steve Box Film’s Other Oscar Wins : none Other Oscar nods : none Notes : Park and Box were the first creatives from the U.K. to win in this category. Park had won three previous Oscars for short film (animated) for Creature Comforts (1990), The Wrong Trousers (1993) and A Close Shave (1995). Wallace & Gromit… was the first stop motion animated film to win. 2007: Happy Feet Studio : Kingdom Pictures, LLC Production; Warner Bros. [Australia/U.S.A.] Oscar Went to : George Miller Film’s Other Oscar Wins : none Other Oscar Nods : none Notes : Miller was the first creative from Australia to win in this category. This was the only motion-capture-related computer-animated film to win before a rule change in 2010 disqualified such films. The soundtrack, which contained such songs as Prince’s “Song of the Heart” and The Beach Boys’ “Do It Again,” reached No. 51 on the Billboard 200. Prince’s song won a Golden Globe for best original song, but wasn’t nominated for an Oscar. 2008: Ratatouille Studio : Pixar Production; Walt Disney Oscar Went to : Brad Bird Film’s Other Oscar Wins : none Other Oscar Nods : original score (Michael Giacchino); sound editing (Randy Thom and Michael Silvers); sound mixing (Randy Thom, Michael Semanick and Doc Kane); original screenplay (screenplay by Brad Bird; story by Jan Pinkava, Jim Capobianco, Brad Bird) Notes : Bird was the first two-time winner in the category. He also won for The Incredibles (2004). 2009: WALL-E Studio : Pixar Animation Studios Production; Walt Disney Oscar Went to : Andrew Stanton Film’s Other Oscar Wins : none Other Oscar Nods : original score (Thomas Newman); original song (“Down to Earth” by Peter Gabriel and Thomas Newman); sound editing (Ben Burtt and Matthew Wood); sound mixing (Tom Myers, Michael Semanick and Ben Burtt); original screenplay (screenplay by Andrew Stanton, Jim Reardon; original story by Andrew Stanton, Pete Docter) Notes : WALL-E was inducted into the National Film Registry in 2021. Stanton was the second two-time winner in the category. He also won for Finding Nemo (2003). The WALL-E soundtrack reached No. 127 on the Billboard 200. 2010: Up Image Credit: ©Walt Disney Co./courtesy Everett Collection Studio : Pixar Production; Walt Disney Oscar Went to : Pete Docter Film’s Other Oscar Wins : original score (Michael Giacchino) Other Oscar Nods : best picture (Jonas Rivera, producer); sound editing (Michael Silvers and Tom Myers), original screenplay (screenplay by Bob Peterson, Pete Docter; story by Pete Docter, Bob Peterson, Tom McCarthy) Notes : Up was the second animated film, following Beauty and the Beast , to receive a best picture nomination. 2011: Toy Story 3 Studio : Pixar Production; Walt Disney Oscar Went to : Lee Unkrich Film’s Other Oscar Wins : original song (“We Belong Together” by Randy Newman) Other Oscar Nods : best picture (Darla K. Anderson, producer); sound editing (Tom Myers and Michael Silvers); adapted screenplay (screenplay by Michael Arndt; story by John Lasseter, Andrew Stanton and Lee Unkrich Notes : Toy Story 3 was the third animated film to receive a best picture nomination. This was the fourth consecutive year that a Pixar film won this award – a record. 2012: Rango Studio : Paramount Pictures Production; Paramount Oscar Went to : Gore Verbinski Film’s Other Oscar Wins : none Other Oscar Nods : none 2013: Brave Studio : Pixar Animation Studios Production; Walt Disney Oscar Went to : Mark Andrews and Brenda Chapman Film’s Other Oscar Wins : none Other Oscar Nods : none Notes : Chapman was the first woman to win in this category. The Brave soundtrack reached No. 33 on the Billboard 200. 2014: Frozen Image Credit: ©Walt Disney Pictures/courtesy Everett Collection Studio : Walt Disney Feature Animation Production; Walt Disney Oscar Went to : Chris Buck, Jennifer Lee and Peter Del Vecho Film’s Other Oscar Wins : original song (“Let It Go,” music and lyric by Kristen Anderson-Lopez and Robert Lopez). Other Oscar Nods : none. Notes : Buck, Lee and Del Vecho were the first three-member creative team to win in this category. The Frozen soundtrack topped the Billboard 200 for 13 weeks. Idina Menzel’s “Let It Go” logged five weeks at No. 5 on the Hot 100. 2015: Big Hero 6 Studio : Walt Disney Animation Studios Production; Walt Disney Oscar Went to : Don Hall, Chris Williams and Roy Conli Film’s Other Oscar Wins : none Other Oscar Nods : none 2016: Inside Out Studio : Pixar Animation Studios Production; Walt Disney Oscar Went to : Pete Docter and Jonas Rivera Film’s Other Oscar Wins : none Other Oscar Nods : original screenplay (screenplay by Pete Docter, Meg LeFauve, Josh Cooley; original story by Pete Docter, Ronnie del Carmen) Notes : Docter was the third two-time winner in the category. He also won for Up (2009). 2017: Zootopia Studio : Walt Disney Animation Studios Production; Walt Disney Oscar Went to : Byron Howard, Rich Moore and Clark Spencer Film’s Other Oscar Wins : None Other Oscar Nods : None Notes : The soundtrack reached No. 121 on the Billboard 200. 2018: Coco Image Credit: © Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures /Courtesy Everett Collection Studio : Pixar Production; Walt Disney Oscar Went to : Lee Unkrich and Darla K. Anderson Film’s Other Oscar Wins : original song (“Remember Me” by Kristen Anderson-Lopez and Robert Lopez) Other Oscar Nods : none Notes : Unkrich was the fourth two-time winner in the category. He also won for Toy Story 3 (2010). The Coco soundtrack reached No. 39 on the Billboard 200. 2019: Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse Studio : Columbia Pictures and Sony Pictures Animation Production; Sony Pictures Releasing Oscar Went to : Bob Persichetti, Peter Ramsey, Rodney Rothman, Phil Lord and Christopher Miller Film’s Other Oscar Wins : None Other Oscar Nods : None Note : This was the first five-member creative team to win in this category. Ramsey was the first Black filmmaker to win here. The soundtrack reached No. 2 on the Billboard 200. Post Malone & Swae Lee’s “Sunflower” was the first song from an animated film to reach No. 1 on the Billboard Hot 100 since Justin Timberlake’s “Can’t Stop the Feeling!” from Trolls (2016). “Sunflower” also received a Grammy nod for record of the year. 2020: Toy Story 4 Studio : Pixar Animation Studios Production; Walt Disney Oscar Went to : Josh Cooley, Mark Nielsen and Jonas Rivera Film’s Other Oscar Wins : None Other Oscar Nods : original song (“I Can’t Let You Throw Yourself Away” by Randy Newman) Notes : With this win, Toy Story became the first franchise to win twice in this category. Rivera was the fifth two-time winner in the category. He also won for Inside Out (2015). The Toy Story 4 soundtrack included Chris Stapleton’s “The Ballad of the Lonesome Cowboy.” 2021: Soul Studio: Walt Disney Animation Studios Production; Walt Disney Oscar Went to: Pete Docter and Dana Murray Film’s Other Oscar Wins: original score (Trent Reznor, Atticus Ross and Jon Batiste) Other Oscar Nods: sound (Ren Klyce, Coya Elliott and David Parker) Notes: With this film, Docter became the first three-time winner in the category. He had previously won for Up (2009) and Inside Out (2015). 2022: Encanto Image Credit: © Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures / Courtesy Everett Collection Studio : Walt Disney Animation Studios Production; Walt Disney Oscar Went to : Jared Bush, Byron Howard, Yvett Merino and Clark Spencer Film’s Other Oscar Wins : none Other Oscar Nods : original score (Germaine Franco); original song (Lin-Manuel Miranda for “Dos Oruguitas”) Notes : Merino was the first creative from Mexico to win in this category.  Spencer and Howard had previously collaborated on Zootopia , the 2016 winner in this category. The Encanto soundtrack logged nine weeks at No. 1 on the Billboard 200. “We Don’t Talk About Bruno” logged five weeks atop the Hot 100. 2023: Guillermo del Toro’s Pinocchio Studio: Netflix Animation; Netflix Oscar Went to: Guillermo del Toro, Mark Gustafson, Gary Ungar and Alex Bulkley Film’s Other Oscar Wins: none Other Oscar Nods: none Notes : With this win, del Toro became the first person to win Oscars for both best picture ( The Shape of Water ) and best animated feature film ( Guillermo del Toro’s Pinocchio ). del Toro co-wrote, co-directed and co-produced Guillermo del Toro’s Pinocchio . “Animation is cinema. Animation is not a genre. And animation is ready to be taken to the next step,” Del Toro said when he received the award. 2024: The Boy and the Heron Studio: GKids/Toho Oscar Went to: Hayao Miyazaki, Toshio Suzuki Film’s Other Oscar Wins: none Other Oscar Nods: none Notes : Miyazaki, who won the 2002 award for Spirited Away , is the first non-American to win twice in this category. He was born in Japan. Moreover, he is one of the first Asians to win two Oscars in any category, along with Taiwanese director Ang Lee. This is also the second Japanese film to win in this category. 2025: Flow Studio: Sideshow and Janus Films Oscar Went to: Gints Zilbalodis, Matīss Kaža, Ron Dyens and Gregory Zalcman Film’s Other Oscar Wins: TBD Other Oscar Nods: international feature film (Latvia) Notes : This was the first indie film to win in this category; only the second animated film to receive a nomination for best international feature film (following 2021’s Flee ) and the first Latvian film to won an Oscar in any category. Zilbalodis directed and co-wrote the film. He also co-composed the music, and oversaw cinematography and editing. Get weekly rundowns straight to your inbox Sign Up Read More About animated animation Billboard Family oscars Want to know what everyone in the music business is talking about? Get in the know on Visit Billboard Pro for music business news Trending Here’s How to Vote for the 2025 American Music Awards Kevin Gates Sits Courtside at Lakers Game Following Comments About LeBron James’ Wife Ye Disses Kendrick Lamar & Tyler, the Creator Again: ‘The Two Most Overrated So-Called Artist’ Slim Thug Responds to Megan Thee Stallion Turning Him Down on Stage at Coachella Kendrick Lamar Leads 2025 American Music Awards Nominations: Full List The Daily A daily briefing on what matters in the music industry Email Address Sign Up Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Icon Link PMC Logo Most Popular One of Taylor Swift’s Inner Circle Gave Heartbreaking Insight As To Why She’s Laying Low 'Andor' Creator Explains That Shocking Assault Scene: "We're All the Product of Rape" Top 50 Highest-Paid Athletes of All Time MFA Boston to Rescind Promised Gift of Benin Bronzes, Close Dedicated Gallery You May Also Like Loading... George Santos Sentenced to Over 7 Years in Prison for Fraud and Identity Theft 3 hrs ago Megan Thee Stallion Brings Desert Heat To “Whenever” 3 hrs ago Strong DTC, Americas Help Zegna Group Offset Wholesale Declines in Q1 22 hrs ago NBA Policies Curb Star Absences Amid Spike in Overall Injuries 3 hrs ago Bone Thugs-N-Harmony Reunite All Five Members for New Song ‘Aww Shit’ 2 hrs ago Customer Service Billboard About Us Accessibility Advertise Shop Events Careers Contact Us Legal Privacy Policy Terms of Use California Privacy Rights Ad Choices Reprints & Permissions Privacy Preferences Your Privacy Choices Sitemap Charts Music Culture Media Pro Follow Us Follow Billboard on Facebook Follow Billboard on Instagram Follow Billboard on Pinterest Follow Billboard on X Follow Billboard on YouTube Have a Tip? Send us a tip using our anonymous form. Send us a tip Send us a tip The Daily A daily briefing on what matters in the music industry Your email Sign Up Sign Up By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Have a Tip? Send us a tip using our anonymous form. Send us a tip Send us a tip Billboard About Us Accessibility Advertise Shop Events Careers Contact Us Legal Privacy Policy Terms of Use California Privacy Rights Ad Choices Reprints & Permissions Privacy Preferences Your Privacy Choices Sitemap Charts Music Culture Media Pro Subscriptions Customer Service Icon Link PMC Logo Billboard is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2025 Billboard Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. Powered by WordPress.com VIP optional screen reader Our Sites Art in America Artforum Artnews ATX TV ATX TV Festival BGR Billboard BlogHer Deadline Flow Space Footwear News Gold Derby IndieWire LA3C Life is Beautiful Robb Report Rolling Stone SheKnows Soaps Sourcing Journal Sportico Spy StyleCaster The Hollywood Reporter TVLine Variety Vibe WWD Login Login Account Manage Account Log Out Close the menu Charts Expand charts menu All Charts Billboard Hot 100™ Billboard 200™ Global 200 Hits Of The World™ Chart Beat Songs Of The Summer Song Breaker Year-End Charts Decade-End Charts Music Expand music menu Music News Pop R&B/Hip-Hop Latin Rock Awards Chart Beat Concerts Features Reviews Videos Expand videos menu Culture Expand culture menu Events Lifestyle Politics TV/Film Media Expand media menu Lists Photos Podcasts Videos Business Expand business menu Business News Legal Touring Publishing Radio Record Labels View All Pro Pro Tools Expand pro-tools menu Songwriters & Producers Song Index Artist Index Royalty Calculator Market Watch Industry Events Calendar Billboard Español Expand billboard-espanol menu Noticias Música Negocios Cultura y Entretenimiento Get Up Anthems by Tres Expand get-up-anthems-by-tres menu Honda Music Expand honda-music menu GET ACCESS TODAY Follow Billboard on Facebook Follow Billboard on Instagram Follow Billboard on Pinterest Follow Billboard on X Follow Billboard on YouTube By providing your information, you agree to our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy . 				We use vendors that may also process your information to help provide our services. // This site is protected by reCAPTCHA Enterprise and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. About Us Accessibility Advertise Shop Events Careers Contact Us Billboard is a part of Penske Media Corporation. © 2025 Billboard Media, LLC. All Rights Reserved. ad