Pixel 6A vs. Pixel 5A With 5G:What Specs Are Changing – New Rolling El Salvador Archives julio 2023 Categories Apparel Automotive parts & accessories Beauty & personal care Consumer Electronics Furniture Home products Machinery Timepieces, jewelry & eyewear Uncategorized All categories Apple products Audio Equipments Camera & Video Game & Room Furniture Gaming Accessories Headphone Laptop & Tablet Server & Workstation Smartphone Smartwatch Storage & Digital Devices TV & Computer Screen Llámanos: +(503) 2263 5748 Email: newrollingsv@gmail.com Sucursales Menu Categories Sucursales Audio Equipments Laptop & Tablet Acer Amazon Apple ASUS HP Gaming Accessories Headphone Earbuds On Ear Over Ear Smartphone Camera & Video Smartwatch Storage & Digital Devices Game & Room Furniture Server & Workstation TV & Computer Screen Home Pixel 6A vs. Pixel 5A With 5G:What Specs Are Changing Pixel 6A vs. Pixel 5A With 5G:What Specs Are Changing admin julio 15, 2023 Google's more affordable Pixel 6A borrows a lot from the pricier Pixel 6. Google’s Pixel 6A is here, and it represents a change from last year’s Pixel 5A with 5G in just about every way. It has a new design inspired by the beautiful Pixel 6, a smaller screen, Google’s Tensor processor and camera features like Magic Eraser, which debuted on the Pixel 6. Preorders have begun, with the phone hitting stores on July 28. Here’s a closer look at the biggest differences between this year’s Pixel 6A and its predecessor. Screen and design As expected, Google is once again having its A-series borrow the design of its latest flagship Pixels. The Pixel 6A is smaller than not just the Pixel 6 and 6 Pro, but also more compact than the 5A with 5G. Compared to last year’s device, the Pixel 6A sports a 6.1-inch screen versus the 5A with 5G’s 5.34-inch display. Both displays are OLED and use Corning’s Gorilla Glass 3 cover glass. The Pixel 6 uses the new Gorilla Glass Victus. The 6A does sport an improved contrast ratio of over 1 million to 1, as well as a «high brightness mode.» The latter two features seem to be brought over directly from the Pixel 6 line. The front camera on the 6A is now centered, a departure from the upper-left corner placement of the 5A. Also in line with the 6 series is a rear design that features a camera bar. Though after looking closely, this camera bar seems to be a hybrid between the Pixel 6 line and what seems to be coming in the fall with the Pixel 7 that Google also teased at its IO developer conference. Both the Pixel 5A and 6A are IP67-certified for water and dust resistance. The 6A drops the 3.5mm headphone jack that was present on the 5A with 5G but does move its fingerprint sensor beneath the display. Neither device supports wireless charging, however. The Pixel 6A runs on Google’s Tensor processor. Processor, 5G and storage As one might expect, Google’s newest Pixel runs on its Tensor silicon, the same chip that powers the 6 and 6 Pro. Last year’s Pixel 5A with 5G used Qualcomm’s Snapdragon 765G processor. Both phones have 6GB of RAM and 128GB of storage, though the Pixel 6A’s LPDDR5 RAM should be more power-efficient, and its storage is UFS 3.1, which could have some performance improvements. Both phones support 5G. We should add that it appears that only Verizon’s Pixel 6A will support millimeter-wave 5G (which is only available in parts of certain cities, stadiums and airports around the country). If you want that device it will run you $500 from the carrier, a $50 premium compared to the regular Pixel 6A that is sold unlocked directly by Google. Camera On paper, the Pixel 5A and 6A share largely similar camera setups. Both main shooters are 12.2-megapixel dual-pixel main lenses with f1.7 aperture and 77-degrees field of view. Google touts the main sensor on the 6A as being a wide lens. The ultrawide on the 6A is also 12 megapixels, a change from the 16-megapixel ultrawide on the 5A with 5G. As for the front shooters, both are 8 megapixels, though the 6A has an ever-so-slightly larger field of view (84 degrees versus 83 degrees on 5A with 5G). The biggest changes, however, seem to be in software. Google is giving the 6A a number of the big camera upgrades it bestowed on the 6 line last year, including the «Magic Eraser» for removing people or objects from photos, «face unblur» which should help keep faces visible even when people are moving, and «Real Tone» for accurately capturing skin tones. Add Your Comment Cancelar la respuesta Comment: Name: Email: Guarda mi nombre, correo electrónico y web en este navegador para la próxima vez que comente. Categories Apparel Automotive parts & accessories Beauty & personal care Consumer Electronics Furniture Home products Machinery Timepieces, jewelry & eyewear Uncategorized Recent posts Microsoft CEO Pitches Xbox Cloud Gaming to Developers, Promising No Extra Coding julio 15, 2023 5W Digital Announces Expansion of Dedicated Houseware and Appliances Team julio 15, 2023 ‘Sharkcano’:NASA Spots Eruption of Underwater Volcano Where Sharks Live julio 15, 2023 SteelSeries Arctis Nova Pro Wireless Review: Great but Imperfect Gaming Headset julio 15, 2023 See Skydiving Salamanders Show Off Their Complex Aerial Maneuvers julio 15, 2023 Tags App Busines plans Case study Methods Middle Pricing Psychological Themesflat Web design Servicio al cliente Política de devoluciones Preguntas frecuentes Política de privacidad Contáctenos Términos y condiciones Proceso de compra Sucursales Escalón 85 av. Don Rúa Santa Tecla I, Calle Daniel Hernández Santa Tecla II, Avenida San Martín Soyapango Quezaltepeque Juan Pablo II Sonsonate ACERCA DE Quiénes Somos Visión y Misión Nuestra historia Servicios Ofertas de empleo Contácto +(503)  2263 5748 newrollingsv@gmail.com Onsus-icon-facebook Instagram Envelope New Rolling © 2024. Todos los derechos reservados. × Login: User Name: Password: Forgot password? Login Don't you have an account? Register . Register: User Name: Email: Password: Confirm Password: Sign Up Already have an account? Sign in . Forgot your password? Get new password Back to Login Hide similarities Highlight differences Select the fields to be shown. Others will be hidden. Drag and drop to rearrange the order. Image SKU Rating Price Stock Availability Add to cart Description Content Weight Dimensions Additional information Click outside to hide the comparison bar Compare Shop 0 Wishlist 0 Cart Your cart Your cart is curently empty Let up help you find the perfect item Shop All Account Search All categories Apple products Audio Equipments Camera & Video Game & Room Furniture Gaming Accessories Headphone Laptop & Tablet Server & Workstation Smartphone Smartwatch Storage & Digital Devices TV & Computer Screen