When and Where to Watch The Blacklist Series Finale | NBC Insider Skip to main content NBC Main menu Home Browse Sports LIVE Networks NBC Insider Peacock Toggle menu Sign Up / Log In Main menu Home Browse Sports LIVE Networks NBC Insider Peacock TV Provider Profile Sign Up / Log In Profile Manage Profile Email Preferences Sign Out NBC Insider Exclusive Create a free profile to get unlimited access to exclusive show news, updates, and more! Sign Up For Free to View NBC Insider The Blacklist This Preview of The Blacklist Series Finale Will Get Your Heart Pumping: Watch Get ready. By Christopher Rosa Jul 10, 2023, 2:39 PM ET The Top 10 Most Memorable Blacklisters | The Blacklist | NBC Now Playing 5:37 Web Exclusive The Top 10 Most Memorable Blacklisters | The Blacklist | NBC 3:11 Highlight Dembe Delivers Emotional Monologue about Red | The Blacklist | NBC 3:31 Web Exclusive What to Know About The Blacklist’s Siya Malik | THE BLACKLIST Load More Coming in at 10 seasons and over 200 nail-biting episodes, The Blacklist is one of NBC's longest-running and most beloved shows. The 10th and final season of The Blacklist has been thrilling to watch, but sadly, it's all coming to an end. “After 10 years, hundreds of Blacklist cases, and more than 200 episodes produced, we’re honored to reach our conclusion,” Blacklist showrunner John Eisendrath said in a statement . “It’s been incredibly fun to create the strange, devious, and delightful Blacklisters to challenge Raymond Reddington and our FBI Task Force each week. We would like to thank everyone at NBC and Sony, our extraordinary crew who make the impossible happen every day, our endlessly inventive writers and producers, and our remarkable cast who brought life to these characters. We appreciate our dedicated fanbase who came along for this wonderful ride and are excited to share this final season with them.” Here's what to know about The Blacklist series finale: When and where can I watch The Blacklist series finale? The Blacklis t series will conclude with a two-hour episode on Thursday, July 13 at 8/7c on NBC. The series finale will be available to stream on Peacock after it premieres on NBC. Watch a preview of the finale, below: View this post on Instagram A post shared by The Blacklist (@nbcblacklist) “It isn’t often that a series resonates so deeply with an audience that it airs for 10 seasons, but The Blacklist proved to be a perfect combination of highly talented producers, stellar writing, a cast that never failed to deliver, and a crew that always rose to the occasion," NBCUniversal Television and Streaming's Lisa Katz said in a statement. "A huge thank you to our partners at Sony, everyone from the past decade who made this show an integral part of NBC’s storied history, and, of course, a special nod to James Spader, whose performance remains nothing short of spectacular.” Photo: NBC Where can I stream The Blacklist episodes? Episodes of The Blacklist are available to stream on Peacock after they premiere on NBC. Read more about: The Blacklist Where To Watch James Spader The WiFi is Booming Xfinity is raising the bar. Stream your favorite shows with low lag for a smooth connection, even when everyone is online at once. You can even power hundreds of devices, so you never have to miss a moment. Learn More Related Stories Gina Kirschenheiter Unwinds With Advice From The Americas Is St. Denis Medical on Tonight (April 29, 2025)? Is a New Episode of The Voice on Tonight? (April 29, 2025) What Time Does Yes, Chef! Premiere Tonight? (April 28, 2025) Is a New Episode of The Voice on Tonight? (April 28, 2025) Suits LA’s Gets Back To Basics with a Very Tense Mock Trial Is The Americas New on NBC This Week? (April 27, 2025) Is a New Episode of Suits LA on Tonight (April 27, 2025)? Is Saturday Night Live New Tonight, April 26? How to Watch Pope Francis' Funeral on NBC (DETAILS) All the World Leaders Attending Pope Francis' Funeral How to Stream Last Breath on Peacock at Home Right Now The Blacklist Watch on NBC Stream on Peacock Sponsored Stories Recommended by Zergnet Recommended for You 2-Year-Old Mariska Hargitay Appears on the Merv Griffin Show Ryan Gosling and Jimmy Fallon Deserve Oscars for Playing Identical-Looking Tough Cops Scarlett Johansson Matches Katie Britt's SOTU Energy in SNL Parody: Watch Download the NBC App The NBC App is the best place to catch up on the most recent season of your favorite shows, watch live TV, and stream movies. Get The Free NBC App Footer menu About Jobs Viewer Panel Casting Advertise Peacock Tickets and NBC Studio Tour Corporate Info About Help FAQ Accessibility Closed Captioning Link TV Provider Contact Us Local Schedule Sitemap NBC Insider RSS Policies Ad Choices Privacy Policy Your Privacy Choice CA Notice Updated Terms of Service Parental Guidelines and TV Ratings Video Viewing Policy Stay Connected Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram ©2025 NBCUniversal Media, LLC. A Division of NBCUniversal