Google Pixel 6 price and release date may have just been leaked | Mashable Tech Science Life Social Good Entertainment Deals Shopping Games Search Cancel Tech Apps & Software Artificial Intelligence Cybersecurity Cryptocurrency Mobile Smart Home Social Media Tech Industry Transportation All Tech Science Space Climate Change Environment All Science Life Digital Culture Family & Parenting Health & Wellness Sex, Dating & Relationships Sleep Careers Mental Health All Life Social Good Activism Gender LGBTQ Racial Justice Sustainability Politics All Social Good Entertainment Games Movies Podcasts TV Shows Watch Guides All Entertainment SHOP THE BEST Laptops Budget Laptops Dating Apps Sexting Apps Hookup Apps VPNs Robot Vaccuums Robot Vaccum & Mop Headphones Speakers Kindles Gift Guides Mashable Choice Mashable Selects All Sex, Dating & Relationships All Laptops All Headphones All Robot Vacuums All VPN All Shopping Games Product Reviews Adult Friend Finder Bumble Premium Tinder Platinum Kindle Paperwhite PS5 vs PS5 Slim All Reviews All Shopping Deals Newsletters VIDEOS Mashable Shows All Videos Home > Tech > Mobile Google Pixel 6 price and release date may have just been leaked That's a pretty good deal. By Stan Schroeder Stan Schroeder Senior Editor Stan is a Senior Editor at Mashable, where he has worked since 2007. He's got more battery-powered gadgets and band t-shirts than you. He writes about the next groundbreaking thing. Typically, this is a phone, a coin, or a car. His ultimate goal is to know something about everything. Read Full Bio on October 7, 2021 Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Flipboard Google Pixel 6 will be quite a bargain in Germany, according to a new ad. Credit: google We know that Google's Pixel 6 phones – yes, the ones with the shiny new Tensor chip – are coming soon, but thanks to a seemingly accidental leak by a German retailer, we now know the device's date and price in Europe. German retailer Saturn revealed the info in a printed ad ( Android Central via Nils Ahrensmeier ), which said the Pixel 6 will start at €649 ($751). Even better, Saturn is sweetening the deal with a pair of free Bose 700 headphones, the retail price of which is normally €279.99 ($322). The same deal probably won't be replicated in all markets, but it does point to retailers offering significant discounts and deals alongside Pixel phones. We still don't know the exact price of the Pixel 6 in the U.S., as European and U.S. prices can differ by quite a lot. It does gives us the ballpark, though, which is somewhere between $699 and $799. We also don't know the price of the larger, Pixel 6 Pro, which will likely be more expensive than the Pixel 6. Mashable Light Speed Want more out-of-this world tech, space and science stories? Sign up for Mashable's weekly Light Speed newsletter. Loading... Sign Me Up By clicking Sign Me Up, you confirm you are 16+ and agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Thanks for signing up! SEE ALSO: Google shares first teaser video for Pixel 6 The ad says a pre-sale for the Pixel 6 will run from October 19 to 27, which indicates the phone will actually show up in stores as early as October 28, or in the week that follows. All of the data above is unofficial, but we do know when Google will officially announce the Pixel 6, as the company recently said it would have an event on October 19. Google's Pixel 6 and Pixel 6 Pro are possibly the most important phones ever in the company's Pixel lineup. They come with Google's new Tensor chip, a completely new design, and upgraded cameras. Topics Google Stan Schroeder Senior Editor Stan is a Senior Editor at Mashable, where he has worked since 2007. He's got more battery-powered gadgets and band t-shirts than you. He writes about the next groundbreaking thing. Typically, this is a phone, a coin, or a car. His ultimate goal is to know something about everything. Recommended For You Google Pixel 9a announced: Specs, price, release date, preorder details A brand new "budget" Pixel phone is here. And it's packed with power. 03/19/2025 By Matt Binder Google's Pixel 9a finally gets a release date Pixel users don't have to wait much longer for the Pixel 9a. 03/28/2025 By Matt Binder Amazon deal of the day: Upgrade to the Google Pixel 9 Pro and save $250 You can also slash up to 33% off the Sony ULT Field 1, Fire HD 10 Kids, Google Pixel tablet, and Fire TV Stick 4K Max. 03/19/2025 By Christina Buff Google Pixel 9a vs Pixel 9: What are the differences? Which should you buy? 03/19/2025 By Matt Binder The Google Pixel 9 just dropped to under $600 for a limited time $599 for Google’s latest AI-powered phone? That’s a tough deal to pass up. 03/03/2025 By Christian Wait More in Tech This top-rated kayak is only $59.99 at Woot It comes with a hand pump, aluminum paddle, two fins, a gear bag, a carrying bag, and a repair patch kit. 2 hours ago By Tabitha Britt Skip The Home Depot — Woot has a pair of Dewalt pruning shears for $79.99 Make up to 1,100 cuts per charge 3 hours ago By Tabitha Britt Celebrate May 4 with this deal on the Lego Star Wars R2-D2 —18% off at Amazon This is the Lego Star Wars droid deal you're looking for. 6 hours ago By Hannah Hoolihan Lego is giving away an exclusive Mother's Day Flower for free — here’s how to get yours on April 27 This Mother's Day Flower model cannot be purchased. 11 hours ago By Joseph Green This Lego Star Wars: The Phantom Menace Mos Espa Podrace Diorama is a great pick-up for fans — save 19% at Amazon Gear up for May 4 with 19% off for a limited time. 04/24/2025 By Hannah Hoolihan Trending on Mashable NYT Connections hints today: Clues, answers for April 25, 2025 Everything you need to solve 'Connections' #684 7 hours ago By Mashable Team Wordle today: Answer, hints for April 25, 2025 Here are some tips and tricks to help you find the answer to "Wordle" #1405. 7 hours ago By Mashable Team NYT Strands hints, answers for April 25 Every hint, nudge and outright answer you need to complete today's NYT Strands puzzle. 7 hours ago By Mashable Team NYT Mini crossword answers, hints for April 25, 2025 Stuck on any of the clues? We have the answers you need. 11 hours ago By Mashable Team What's new to streaming this week? (April 25, 2025) What's fresh on Netflix, Max, Prime Video, and more? 04/24/2025 By Kristy Puchko The biggest stories of the day delivered to your inbox. Loading... Subscribe These newsletters may contain advertising, deals, or affiliate links. By clicking Subscribe, you confirm you are 16+ and agree to our Terms of Use and Privacy Policy . Thanks for signing up. See you at your inbox! TECH Android Antivirus Apple Artificial Intelligence Cameras Creative Software Cryptocurrency Desktops Gaming Consoles Headphones Laptops Microsoft Mobile Productivity Smart Home Social Media Speakers Tablets Tech Industry TikTok Transportation TVs VPN Wifi/Routers SCIENCE Animals Climate Change Environment NASA Rocket Launches Space GAMES Arcade Card Casino Connections Daily Puzzles Strands Word Wordle SOCIAL GOOD DEALS How we Select Deals ENTERTAINMENT DC Comics Disney HBO Hulu Marvel Movies Music Peacock Pixar Podcasts Streaming TV Shows True Crime LIFE Careers Digital Culture Education Family & Parenting Health & Wellness House & Home Mental Health Sex, Dating & Relationships Sleep SHOP THE BEST All Beauty All Earbuds All Kitchen All Robot Vacuums Bluetooth Speakers Budget Laptops Dating Apps E-Readers Gift Guides Headphones Hookup Apps iPads Kindles Laptops Mashable Choice Mashable Selects Speakers Sexting Apps Macbooks Robot Vaccuums Robot Vaccum & Mop VPNs Windows Laptops REVIEWS Adult Friend Finder Bumble Premium Kindle Paperwhite PS5 vs PS5 Slim Tinder Platinum EVENTS Black Friday CES Cyber Monday Prime Day Samsung Galaxy Unpacked WWDC VIDEOS About Mashable Editorial Standards Contact Us We're Hiring Newsletters Sitemap ©2005–2025 Mashable, Inc., a Ziff Davis company. All Rights Reserved. Mashable is a registered trademark of Ziff Davis and may not be used by third parties without express written permission. About Ziff Davis Privacy Policy Terms of Use Advertise Accessibility Do Not Sell My Personal Information AdChoices