Google CEO Sundar Pichai made $226 million last year Skip to content All Sections Subscribe Now 64°F Tuesday, April 29th 2025 Today's e-Edition Home Page News News Latest Headlines Crime and Public Safety California News National News World News Politics Education Environment Science Health Mr. Roadshow Transportation Weather Local Bay Area San Jose Santa Clara County Peninsula San Mateo County Alameda County Santa Cruz County Sal Pizarro Obituaries Obituaries News Obituaries Place an Obituary Opinion Opinion Editorials Opinion Columnists Letters to the Editor Commentary Cartoons Election Endorsements Sports Sports San Francisco 49ers San Francisco Giants Golden State Warriors Raiders Athletics San Jose Sharks San Jose Earthquakes Bay FC College Sports Wilner Hotline High School Sports Other Sports Sports Columnists Sports Blogs Golden State Valkyries Things To Do Entertainment Things To Do Restaurants, Food and Drink Celebrities TV Streaming Movies Music Theater Lifestyle Cannabis Advice Travel Pets and Animals Comics Puzzles and Games Horoscopes Event Calendar Business Business Housing Economy Technology Best Reviews SiliconValley.com Marketplace Branded Content Partner Content BayArea.com Real Estate Branded Content Paid Content by Brandpoint Subscribe Advertise Log In Logout Get Morning Report and other email newsletters Sign Up Business | Google CEO Sundar Pichai made $226 million last… Share this: Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Click to print (Opens in new window) Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Subscribe Log In Account Settings Contact Us Log Out Spoof a user Get Morning Report and other email newsletters Sign Up Subscribe Log In Search 64°F Tuesday, April 29th 2025 Today's e-Edition Business Business Housing Real Estate Economy Technology SiliconValley.com Trending: Kittle’s new contract Hot housing market Valero refinery’s future? Is it for the birds? Alcario Castellano remembered Bryan Adams coming to SJ Business News News Based on facts, either observed and verified directly by the reporter, or reported and verified from knowledgeable sources. Google CEO Sundar Pichai made $226 million last year Share this: Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Click to print (Opens in new window) Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Sundar Pichai, CEO of Google Inc. pictured in New Delhi on December 19, 2022 made nearly $226 million in 2022, according to a new filing from Alphabet. (Sajjad Hussain/AFP/Getty Images) By CNN.com Wire Service UPDATED: April 24, 2023 at 6:39 AM PDT By Nicole Goodkind | CNN Business Google’s top executive took home quite a bit of money last year. Sundar Pichai, the CEO of Google and Google’s parent company Alphabet, made nearly $226 million in 2022, according to a new filing from Alphabet. The majority of the pay came from stock holdings, valued at more than $218 million. The rest of the compensation came from a $2 million base salary and more than $5 million for a private security detail. It is a big boost for Pichai, who made just over $6 million in 2021 and $7.4 million in 2020. Pichai’s stock boosts come every three years, in 2019 he received a similar package of $281 million. Alphabet stock, meanwhile, fell by 39% in 2022 amid a broader tech and market slowdown. Shares have rebounded this year, moving up about 19.5% since January. Other top executives also received healthy paychecks in 2022, though nowhere near as large as Pichai’s. Prabhakar Raghavan, senior vice president of knowledge and information at Google and Philipp Schindler, Google’s chief business officer, each made $37 million. Google and Alphabet CFO Ruth Porat and Kent Walker, chief legal officer, both made about $24.5 million. In January, Alphabet announced it would cut 12,000 jobs amounting to a 6% cut in its total workforce. The median compensation for an Alphabet employee is just under $280,000, according to the filing. It means Pichai’s salary is more than 800 times larger. Someone making the $15.50 minimum wage in Alphabet’s home state of California would have to work 14.6 million hours, or just over 7000 years (with 40 hour work weeks and no time off) to catch up with Pichai’s 2022 salary. Ballooning CEO compensation has been a controversial topic in recent years. Pay for top executives has skyrocketed by 1460% since 1978 according to a study by the Economic Policy Institute, and more than 80% of their pay is typically stock-related. “This escalation of CEO compensation and of executive compensation more generally has fueled the growth of top 1% and top 0.1% incomes, leaving fewer of the gains of economic growth for ordinary workers and widening the gap between very high earners and the bottom 90%,” wrote analysts at the institute. “The economy would suffer no harm if CEOs were paid less (or were taxed more).” Related Articles Tech industry tried reducing AI’s pervasive bias. Now Trump wants to end its ‘woke AI’ efforts Work-from-home more prevalent in Bay Area than rest of U.S. and world, surveys show Google’s parent begins year with robust growth despite legal, competitive and economic threats Google paid Samsung ‘enormous sums’ for Gemini AI app installs Google, DOJ go back to court to fight over search monopoly fix Apple CEO Tim Cook cut his own 2023 pay by 40% after drawing criticism from shareholders for earning $100 million in 2022 and 2021. The vast majority of Cook’s 2022 compensation — about 75% — was tied up in company shares, with half dependent on share price performance. Shareholders voted against Cook’s pay package after Apple’s stock fell nearly 27% last year. The vote is nonbinding, but the board’s compensation committee said Cook requested the reduction. “The compensation committee balanced shareholder feedback, Apple’s exceptional performance, and a recommendation from Mr. Cook to adjust his compensation in light of the feedback received,” the company said in its annual proxy statement released Thursday. The-CNN-Wire ™ & © 2023 Cable News Network, Inc., a Warner Bros. Discovery Company. All rights reserved. Originally Published: April 24, 2023 at 4:50 AM PDT Share this: Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window) Click to share on Bluesky (Opens in new window) Click to print (Opens in new window) Click to email a link to a friend (Opens in new window) Click to share on Reddit (Opens in new window) Click to share on Twitter (Opens in new window) Report an error Policies and Standards Contact Us Most Popular Most Popular Dear Abby: I don’t want to report them, but their house is too foul for kids Dear Abby: I don't want to report them, but their house is too foul for kids California DMV advises some people to hold off getting Real ID California DMV advises some people to hold off getting Real ID Miss Manners: I’ve done this for years as a teacher, but maybe it’s an absurd tradition? Miss Manners: I've done this for years as a teacher, but maybe it's an absurd tradition? Dear Abby: Grandfather will boycott kid’s graduation unless he gets VIP treatment Dear Abby: Grandfather will boycott kid's graduation unless he gets VIP treatment Asking Eric: We think the grandparents should know about their son’s secret child Asking Eric: We think the grandparents should know about their son's secret child Asking Eric: Years later, there’s fallout from the drama of my missionary days Asking Eric: Years later, there's fallout from the drama of my missionary days Am I helping birds by putting out dryer lint? Yarn? Dog hair? Am I helping birds by putting out dryer lint? Yarn? Dog hair? Miss Manners: I hate their dinnertime conversation but I can’t just find new friends Miss Manners: I hate their dinnertime conversation but I can't just find new friends Asking Eric: My mother seems jealous of the attention to my injured son Asking Eric: My mother seems jealous of the attention to my injured son Harriette Cole: I feel violated even though technically nothing happened Harriette Cole: I feel violated even though technically nothing happened More in Business Starbucks’ new drive-thru in Texas is the coffee giant’s first 3D printed store in the US As Elon Musk nears end of 130-day DOGE stint, he’s $113 billion down 23andMe bankruptcy bid deadline extended as DNA privacy woes linger How to visit the Nintendo San Francisco store on its grand opening weekend 2023 April 24 News Alerts Email Newsletters Today’s e-Edition Mobile Apps Site Map Marketplace Place an Obituary Place a Real Estate Ad Lottery Contact Us Digital Access FAQ Join our Team Special Sections Sponsor a Group Get Sponsored Access Privacy Policy Accessibility Advertise With Us Network Advertising Daily Ads Place a Legal Notice Public Notices Monster.com Subscribe Member Services Manage Subscriptions The Mercury News Store Archive Search Reprints Subscribe Now Terms of Use Cookie Policy Cookie Preferences California Notice at Collection Notice of Financial Incentive Do Not Sell/Share My Personal Information Arbitration Powered by WordPress.com VIP Copyright © 2025 MediaNews Group BAY AREA'S HOME PAGE Close