Wimbledon 2024 Final result: Carlos Alcaraz beats Novak Djokovic, defends title  | AP News Menu World SECTIONS Israel-Hamas war Russia-Ukraine War Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa TOP STORIES Canada's Liberals celebrate a stunning win and the populist challenger loses his seat What is a conclave? What to know about the secretive process to elect the next pope As communist troops streamed into Saigon, a few remaining reporters kept photos and stories flowing Newsletters The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. The Afternoon Wire Get caught up on what you may have missed throughout the day. See All Newsletters U.S. SECTIONS Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths TOP STORIES Layoffs, closures and gaps in oversight expected after hundreds of DOJ grants are canceled Decision looming for Trump administration on first PFAS drinking water limits Authorities believe crash through Illinois after-school building that killed 4 wasn’t targeted Newsletters The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. See All Newsletters AP QUIZZES Test Your News I.Q. — take today’s quiz Politics SECTIONS Florida election results Wisconsin election results White House Congress U.S. Supreme Court TOP STORIES Trump to offer automakers some relief on his 25% tariffs, after worries they could hurt US factories Trump marks his first 100 days in office with a rally in Michigan, a state rocked by his tariffs Numbers that matter from the first 100 days of Trump's second term Newsletters Ground Game Exclusive insights and key stories from the world of politics. See All Newsletters Sports SECTIONS NBA MLB NHL WNBA NFL Auto Racing Soccer TOP STORIES Shedeur Sanders was not the only prospect to receive a prank call during the NFL draft Is the punishment for cursing in F1 too harsh? Racing boss hints at changes after driver backlash Power restored at Madrid Open as tennis tournament resumes with packed schedule. Swiatek wins. Newsletters AP Top 25 Poll Alerts Get email alerts for every college football Top 25 Poll release. The Sports Wire Your home base for in-depth reporting from the world of sports. See All Newsletters Entertainment SECTIONS Movie Reviews What to Stream Television Book Reviews Music Celebrity Interviews TOP STORIES This summer at the movies, superheroes, from ‘Superman’ to ‘Fantastic Four,’ return Summer Movie Guide 2025: Here’s what’s coming to theaters and streaming from May to August After 'The Idol,' Abel Tesfaye's new movie 'Hurry Up Tomorrow' brought 'joy back into filmmaking' Newsletters AP Entertainment Wire Get AP's first personalized newsletter delivering you entertainment news twice a week. See All Newsletters Business SECTIONS Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology TOP STORIES US consumer confidence plunges to lowest in 5 years on tariff worries 'Nowhere to turn': Small businesses dependent on imports from China are feeling more desperate US job openings fall to 7.2 million in March, the lowest level since September Science SECTIONS Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine TOP STORIES Amazon launches its first internet satellites to compete against SpaceX's Starlinks NASA's oldest astronaut felt the decades melt away in space before returning on his 70th birthday A carnivorous 'bone collector' caterpillar dresses in the remains of its prey Fact Check TOP STORIES FACT FOCUS: Trump credited with rising military recruitment. Growth started before his reelection FACT FOCUS: Examining RFK Jr.'s claims about measles, autism and diet as head of HHS FACT FOCUS: Trump exaggerates revenue from tariffs Oddities TOP STORIES Speedboat that flipped midair in 200 mph crash wins race on Arizona lake A man airlifted from Japan's Mount Fuji returns to the slope days later and is rescued again Bloody fingers are just part of the game in this traditional German sport Bloody fingers are just part of the game in this traditional German sport A bear is spotted in Connecticut playing on family's backyard slide Mark Allen compiles rare 147 break at snooker worlds and earns lucky fan $33,000 Be Well TOP STORIES St. Louis dyemaker is racing to help food companies switch to natural colors Worries about flying seem to be taking off. Here's how to cope with in-flight anxiety A 6-hour morning routine? First, try a few simple habits to start your day Community, mentors and skill-building: Experts weigh the role of employee resource groups In the rapidly shifting world of work, many employees are unclear what’s expected of them How setting boundaries can improve your health at work Newsletters Newsletters AP News Alerts Keep your pulse on the news with breaking news alerts from The AP. The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. Ground Game Exclusive insights and key stories from the world of politics. Beyond the Story Executive Editor Julie Pace brings you behind the scenes of the AP newsroom. The Afternoon Wire Get caught up on what you may have missed throughout the day. AP Entertainment Wire Get AP's first personalized newsletter delivering you entertainment news twice a week. See All Newsletters Photography SECTIONS 2024 YEAR END PHOTOS Photo Essays Photography TOP STORIES Photos of a power outage in Spain and Portugal knocks out ATMs, subways and traffic signals AP PHOTOS: Thousands of Buddhists participate in Lotus Lantern Festival in South Korea For nearly 60 days, Israel has blocked food from Gaza. Palestinians struggle to feed their families Newsletters The World in Pictures Get The AP’s most compelling photographs sent directly to your inbox. See All Newsletters AP Investigations Climate SECTIONS Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus TOP STORIES Decision looming for Trump administration on first PFAS drinking water limits Brazilian justice orders government to seize lands with proven illegal deforestation Vineyards in NY wine country push sustainability as they adapt to climate change Health TOP STORIES FDA scrutiny of Novavax COVID-19 vaccine sparks uncertainty about other shots St. Louis dyemaker is racing to help food companies switch to natural colors Genetic medicine can leave people with rare mutations behind. But there's new hope Worries about flying seem to be taking off. Here's how to cope with in-flight anxiety Spring allergies are back. Here's how to check pollen levels and keep from sneezing Believers say microdosing psychedelics helps them. Scientists are trying to measure the claims Tech SECTIONS Artificial Intelligence Social Media TOP STORIES Tech industry tried reducing AI's pervasive bias. Now Trump wants to end its 'woke AI' efforts Chinese singles are looking for love in video chats — with thousands following along in real time Power outages across Spain and Portugal affected millions. How to prepare for a major blackout Lifestyle SECTIONS Food & Recipes Gardening Homes Travel Fashion Pets TOP STORIES The secret to a refreshing cocktail or mocktail might be growing in the garden Danish king arrives in Greenland as Trump eyes strategic Arctic island Celebrate Cinco de Mayo with crisp-fried shrimp tacos Religion TOP STORIES Middle East latest: Israeli families appeal for return of loved ones' remains from Gaza Who is Cardinal Becciu? Why isn't he participating in the conclave to elect a pope? Clashes between Druze gunmen and pro-government fighters in Syrian capital kill at least 10 Newsletters World of Faith Comprehensive global coverage of how religion shapes our world. See All Newsletters Español TOP STORIES España y Portugal se centran en la causa del gran apagón con la electricidad casi restablecida Carney gana las elecciones en Canadá, mientras que el líder conservador pierde su escaño El desacreditado cardenal Becciu se retira del cónclave para elegir al papa Rusia anuncia alto el fuego de 72 horas en Ucrania para próxima semana para conmemorar derrota nazi Trump celebra sus primeros 100 días en el cargo con un mitin en Michigan Standards Quizzes Press Releases My Account MORE World Israel-Hamas war Russia-Ukraine War Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Australia Middle East Global Elections U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths Politics Florida election results Wisconsin election results White House Congress U.S. Supreme Court Sports NBA MLB NHL WNBA NFL Auto Racing Soccer Entertainment Movie Reviews What to Stream Television Book Reviews Music Celebrity Interviews Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine Fact Check Oddities Be Well Newsletters Photography 2024 YEAR END PHOTOS Photo Essays Photography AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus Health Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Homes Travel Fashion Pets Religion Español Standards Quizzes Press Releases My Account Sign in Search Query Submit Search Show Search Menu Submit Search World Israel-Hamas war Russia-Ukraine War Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Australia Middle East Global Elections SECTIONS Israel-Hamas war Russia-Ukraine War Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa TOP STORIES Canada's Liberals celebrate a stunning win and the populist challenger loses his seat What is a conclave? What to know about the secretive process to elect the next pope As communist troops streamed into Saigon, a few remaining reporters kept photos and stories flowing Newsletters The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. The Afternoon Wire Get caught up on what you may have missed throughout the day. See All Newsletters U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths SECTIONS Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths TOP STORIES Layoffs, closures and gaps in oversight expected after hundreds of DOJ grants are canceled Decision looming for Trump administration on first PFAS drinking water limits Authorities believe crash through Illinois after-school building that killed 4 wasn’t targeted Newsletters The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. See All Newsletters AP QUIZZES Test Your News I.Q. — take today’s quiz Politics Florida election results Wisconsin election results White House Congress U.S. Supreme Court SECTIONS Florida election results Wisconsin election results White House Congress U.S. Supreme Court TOP STORIES Trump to offer automakers some relief on his 25% tariffs, after worries they could hurt US factories Trump marks his first 100 days in office with a rally in Michigan, a state rocked by his tariffs Numbers that matter from the first 100 days of Trump's second term Newsletters Ground Game Exclusive insights and key stories from the world of politics. See All Newsletters Sports NBA MLB NHL WNBA NFL Auto Racing Soccer SECTIONS NBA MLB NHL WNBA NFL Auto Racing Soccer TOP STORIES Shedeur Sanders was not the only prospect to receive a prank call during the NFL draft Is the punishment for cursing in F1 too harsh? Racing boss hints at changes after driver backlash Power restored at Madrid Open as tennis tournament resumes with packed schedule. Swiatek wins. Newsletters AP Top 25 Poll Alerts Get email alerts for every college football Top 25 Poll release. The Sports Wire Your home base for in-depth reporting from the world of sports. See All Newsletters Entertainment Movie Reviews What to Stream Television Book Reviews Music Celebrity Interviews SECTIONS Movie Reviews What to Stream Television Book Reviews Music Celebrity Interviews TOP STORIES This summer at the movies, superheroes, from ‘Superman’ to ‘Fantastic Four,’ return Summer Movie Guide 2025: Here’s what’s coming to theaters and streaming from May to August After 'The Idol,' Abel Tesfaye's new movie 'Hurry Up Tomorrow' brought 'joy back into filmmaking' Newsletters AP Entertainment Wire Get AP's first personalized newsletter delivering you entertainment news twice a week. See All Newsletters Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology SECTIONS Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology TOP STORIES US consumer confidence plunges to lowest in 5 years on tariff worries 'Nowhere to turn': Small businesses dependent on imports from China are feeling more desperate US job openings fall to 7.2 million in March, the lowest level since September Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine SECTIONS Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine TOP STORIES Amazon launches its first internet satellites to compete against SpaceX's Starlinks NASA's oldest astronaut felt the decades melt away in space before returning on his 70th birthday A carnivorous 'bone collector' caterpillar dresses in the remains of its prey Fact Check TOP STORIES FACT FOCUS: Trump credited with rising military recruitment. Growth started before his reelection FACT FOCUS: Examining RFK Jr.'s claims about measles, autism and diet as head of HHS FACT FOCUS: Trump exaggerates revenue from tariffs Oddities TOP STORIES Speedboat that flipped midair in 200 mph crash wins race on Arizona lake A man airlifted from Japan's Mount Fuji returns to the slope days later and is rescued again Bloody fingers are just part of the game in this traditional German sport Bloody fingers are just part of the game in this traditional German sport A bear is spotted in Connecticut playing on family's backyard slide Mark Allen compiles rare 147 break at snooker worlds and earns lucky fan $33,000 Be Well TOP STORIES St. Louis dyemaker is racing to help food companies switch to natural colors Worries about flying seem to be taking off. Here's how to cope with in-flight anxiety A 6-hour morning routine? First, try a few simple habits to start your day Community, mentors and skill-building: Experts weigh the role of employee resource groups In the rapidly shifting world of work, many employees are unclear what’s expected of them How setting boundaries can improve your health at work Newsletters Newsletters AP News Alerts Keep your pulse on the news with breaking news alerts from The AP. The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. Ground Game Exclusive insights and key stories from the world of politics. Beyond the Story Executive Editor Julie Pace brings you behind the scenes of the AP newsroom. The Afternoon Wire Get caught up on what you may have missed throughout the day. AP Entertainment Wire Get AP's first personalized newsletter delivering you entertainment news twice a week. See All Newsletters Photography 2024 YEAR END PHOTOS Photo Essays Photography SECTIONS 2024 YEAR END PHOTOS Photo Essays Photography TOP STORIES Photos of a power outage in Spain and Portugal knocks out ATMs, subways and traffic signals AP PHOTOS: Thousands of Buddhists participate in Lotus Lantern Festival in South Korea For nearly 60 days, Israel has blocked food from Gaza. Palestinians struggle to feed their families Newsletters The World in Pictures Get The AP’s most compelling photographs sent directly to your inbox. See All Newsletters AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus SECTIONS Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus TOP STORIES Decision looming for Trump administration on first PFAS drinking water limits Brazilian justice orders government to seize lands with proven illegal deforestation Vineyards in NY wine country push sustainability as they adapt to climate change Health TOP STORIES FDA scrutiny of Novavax COVID-19 vaccine sparks uncertainty about other shots St. Louis dyemaker is racing to help food companies switch to natural colors Genetic medicine can leave people with rare mutations behind. But there's new hope Worries about flying seem to be taking off. Here's how to cope with in-flight anxiety Spring allergies are back. Here's how to check pollen levels and keep from sneezing Believers say microdosing psychedelics helps them. Scientists are trying to measure the claims Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media SECTIONS Artificial Intelligence Social Media TOP STORIES Tech industry tried reducing AI's pervasive bias. Now Trump wants to end its 'woke AI' efforts Chinese singles are looking for love in video chats — with thousands following along in real time Power outages across Spain and Portugal affected millions. How to prepare for a major blackout Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Homes Travel Fashion Pets SECTIONS Food & Recipes Gardening Homes Travel Fashion Pets TOP STORIES The secret to a refreshing cocktail or mocktail might be growing in the garden Danish king arrives in Greenland as Trump eyes strategic Arctic island Celebrate Cinco de Mayo with crisp-fried shrimp tacos Religion TOP STORIES Middle East latest: Israeli families appeal for return of loved ones' remains from Gaza Who is Cardinal Becciu? Why isn't he participating in the conclave to elect a pope? Clashes between Druze gunmen and pro-government fighters in Syrian capital kill at least 10 Newsletters World of Faith Comprehensive global coverage of how religion shapes our world. See All Newsletters Español TOP STORIES España y Portugal se centran en la causa del gran apagón con la electricidad casi restablecida Carney gana las elecciones en Canadá, mientras que el líder conservador pierde su escaño El desacreditado cardenal Becciu se retira del cónclave para elegir al papa Rusia anuncia alto el fuego de 72 horas en Ucrania para próxima semana para conmemorar derrota nazi Trump celebra sus primeros 100 días en el cargo con un mitin en Michigan Standards Quizzes Press Releases My Account The Associated Press is an independent global news organization dedicated to factual reporting. Founded in 1846, AP today remains the most trusted source of fast, accurate, unbiased news in all formats and the essential provider of the technology and services vital to the news business. More than half the world’s population sees AP journalism every day. twitter instagram facebook The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection More From AP News About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection More From AP News About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook SECTIONS About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook Copyright 2025 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. Menu World SECTIONS Israel-Hamas war Russia-Ukraine War Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa TOP STORIES Canada's Liberals celebrate a stunning win and the populist challenger loses his seat What is a conclave? What to know about the secretive process to elect the next pope As communist troops streamed into Saigon, a few remaining reporters kept photos and stories flowing Newsletters The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. The Afternoon Wire Get caught up on what you may have missed throughout the day. See All Newsletters U.S. SECTIONS Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths TOP STORIES Layoffs, closures and gaps in oversight expected after hundreds of DOJ grants are canceled Decision looming for Trump administration on first PFAS drinking water limits Authorities believe crash through Illinois after-school building that killed 4 wasn’t targeted Newsletters The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. See All Newsletters AP QUIZZES Test Your News I.Q. — take today’s quiz Politics SECTIONS Florida election results Wisconsin election results White House Congress U.S. Supreme Court TOP STORIES Trump to offer automakers some relief on his 25% tariffs, after worries they could hurt US factories Trump marks his first 100 days in office with a rally in Michigan, a state rocked by his tariffs Numbers that matter from the first 100 days of Trump's second term Newsletters Ground Game Exclusive insights and key stories from the world of politics. See All Newsletters Sports SECTIONS NBA MLB NHL WNBA NFL Auto Racing Soccer TOP STORIES Shedeur Sanders was not the only prospect to receive a prank call during the NFL draft Is the punishment for cursing in F1 too harsh? Racing boss hints at changes after driver backlash Power restored at Madrid Open as tennis tournament resumes with packed schedule. Swiatek wins. Newsletters AP Top 25 Poll Alerts Get email alerts for every college football Top 25 Poll release. The Sports Wire Your home base for in-depth reporting from the world of sports. See All Newsletters Entertainment SECTIONS Movie Reviews What to Stream Television Book Reviews Music Celebrity Interviews TOP STORIES This summer at the movies, superheroes, from ‘Superman’ to ‘Fantastic Four,’ return Summer Movie Guide 2025: Here’s what’s coming to theaters and streaming from May to August After 'The Idol,' Abel Tesfaye's new movie 'Hurry Up Tomorrow' brought 'joy back into filmmaking' Newsletters AP Entertainment Wire Get AP's first personalized newsletter delivering you entertainment news twice a week. See All Newsletters Business SECTIONS Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology TOP STORIES US consumer confidence plunges to lowest in 5 years on tariff worries 'Nowhere to turn': Small businesses dependent on imports from China are feeling more desperate US job openings fall to 7.2 million in March, the lowest level since September Science SECTIONS Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine TOP STORIES Amazon launches its first internet satellites to compete against SpaceX's Starlinks NASA's oldest astronaut felt the decades melt away in space before returning on his 70th birthday A carnivorous 'bone collector' caterpillar dresses in the remains of its prey Fact Check TOP STORIES FACT FOCUS: Trump credited with rising military recruitment. Growth started before his reelection FACT FOCUS: Examining RFK Jr.'s claims about measles, autism and diet as head of HHS FACT FOCUS: Trump exaggerates revenue from tariffs Oddities TOP STORIES Speedboat that flipped midair in 200 mph crash wins race on Arizona lake A man airlifted from Japan's Mount Fuji returns to the slope days later and is rescued again Bloody fingers are just part of the game in this traditional German sport Bloody fingers are just part of the game in this traditional German sport A bear is spotted in Connecticut playing on family's backyard slide Mark Allen compiles rare 147 break at snooker worlds and earns lucky fan $33,000 Be Well TOP STORIES St. Louis dyemaker is racing to help food companies switch to natural colors Worries about flying seem to be taking off. Here's how to cope with in-flight anxiety A 6-hour morning routine? First, try a few simple habits to start your day Community, mentors and skill-building: Experts weigh the role of employee resource groups In the rapidly shifting world of work, many employees are unclear what’s expected of them How setting boundaries can improve your health at work Newsletters Newsletters AP News Alerts Keep your pulse on the news with breaking news alerts from The AP. The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. Ground Game Exclusive insights and key stories from the world of politics. Beyond the Story Executive Editor Julie Pace brings you behind the scenes of the AP newsroom. The Afternoon Wire Get caught up on what you may have missed throughout the day. AP Entertainment Wire Get AP's first personalized newsletter delivering you entertainment news twice a week. See All Newsletters Photography SECTIONS 2024 YEAR END PHOTOS Photo Essays Photography TOP STORIES Photos of a power outage in Spain and Portugal knocks out ATMs, subways and traffic signals AP PHOTOS: Thousands of Buddhists participate in Lotus Lantern Festival in South Korea For nearly 60 days, Israel has blocked food from Gaza. Palestinians struggle to feed their families Newsletters The World in Pictures Get The AP’s most compelling photographs sent directly to your inbox. See All Newsletters AP Investigations Climate SECTIONS Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus TOP STORIES Decision looming for Trump administration on first PFAS drinking water limits Brazilian justice orders government to seize lands with proven illegal deforestation Vineyards in NY wine country push sustainability as they adapt to climate change Health TOP STORIES FDA scrutiny of Novavax COVID-19 vaccine sparks uncertainty about other shots St. Louis dyemaker is racing to help food companies switch to natural colors Genetic medicine can leave people with rare mutations behind. But there's new hope Worries about flying seem to be taking off. Here's how to cope with in-flight anxiety Spring allergies are back. Here's how to check pollen levels and keep from sneezing Believers say microdosing psychedelics helps them. Scientists are trying to measure the claims Tech SECTIONS Artificial Intelligence Social Media TOP STORIES Tech industry tried reducing AI's pervasive bias. Now Trump wants to end its 'woke AI' efforts Chinese singles are looking for love in video chats — with thousands following along in real time Power outages across Spain and Portugal affected millions. How to prepare for a major blackout Lifestyle SECTIONS Food & Recipes Gardening Homes Travel Fashion Pets TOP STORIES The secret to a refreshing cocktail or mocktail might be growing in the garden Danish king arrives in Greenland as Trump eyes strategic Arctic island Celebrate Cinco de Mayo with crisp-fried shrimp tacos Religion TOP STORIES Middle East latest: Israeli families appeal for return of loved ones' remains from Gaza Who is Cardinal Becciu? Why isn't he participating in the conclave to elect a pope? Clashes between Druze gunmen and pro-government fighters in Syrian capital kill at least 10 Newsletters World of Faith Comprehensive global coverage of how religion shapes our world. See All Newsletters Español TOP STORIES España y Portugal se centran en la causa del gran apagón con la electricidad casi restablecida Carney gana las elecciones en Canadá, mientras que el líder conservador pierde su escaño El desacreditado cardenal Becciu se retira del cónclave para elegir al papa Rusia anuncia alto el fuego de 72 horas en Ucrania para próxima semana para conmemorar derrota nazi Trump celebra sus primeros 100 días en el cargo con un mitin en Michigan Standards Quizzes Press Releases My Account MORE World Israel-Hamas war Russia-Ukraine War Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Australia Middle East Global Elections U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths Politics Florida election results Wisconsin election results White House Congress U.S. Supreme Court Sports NBA MLB NHL WNBA NFL Auto Racing Soccer Entertainment Movie Reviews What to Stream Television Book Reviews Music Celebrity Interviews Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine Fact Check Oddities Be Well Newsletters Photography 2024 YEAR END PHOTOS Photo Essays Photography AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus Health Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Homes Travel Fashion Pets Religion Español Standards Quizzes Press Releases My Account Sign in Search Query Submit Search Show Search Menu Submit Search World Israel-Hamas war Russia-Ukraine War Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa Australia Middle East Global Elections SECTIONS Israel-Hamas war Russia-Ukraine War Español China Asia Pacific Latin America Europe Africa TOP STORIES Canada's Liberals celebrate a stunning win and the populist challenger loses his seat What is a conclave? What to know about the secretive process to elect the next pope As communist troops streamed into Saigon, a few remaining reporters kept photos and stories flowing Newsletters The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. The Afternoon Wire Get caught up on what you may have missed throughout the day. See All Newsletters U.S. Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths SECTIONS Immigration Weather Education Transportation Abortion LGBTQ+ Notable Deaths TOP STORIES Layoffs, closures and gaps in oversight expected after hundreds of DOJ grants are canceled Decision looming for Trump administration on first PFAS drinking water limits Authorities believe crash through Illinois after-school building that killed 4 wasn’t targeted Newsletters The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. See All Newsletters AP QUIZZES Test Your News I.Q. — take today’s quiz Politics Florida election results Wisconsin election results White House Congress U.S. Supreme Court SECTIONS Florida election results Wisconsin election results White House Congress U.S. Supreme Court TOP STORIES Trump to offer automakers some relief on his 25% tariffs, after worries they could hurt US factories Trump marks his first 100 days in office with a rally in Michigan, a state rocked by his tariffs Numbers that matter from the first 100 days of Trump's second term Newsletters Ground Game Exclusive insights and key stories from the world of politics. See All Newsletters Sports NBA MLB NHL WNBA NFL Auto Racing Soccer SECTIONS NBA MLB NHL WNBA NFL Auto Racing Soccer TOP STORIES Shedeur Sanders was not the only prospect to receive a prank call during the NFL draft Is the punishment for cursing in F1 too harsh? Racing boss hints at changes after driver backlash Power restored at Madrid Open as tennis tournament resumes with packed schedule. Swiatek wins. Newsletters AP Top 25 Poll Alerts Get email alerts for every college football Top 25 Poll release. The Sports Wire Your home base for in-depth reporting from the world of sports. See All Newsletters Entertainment Movie Reviews What to Stream Television Book Reviews Music Celebrity Interviews SECTIONS Movie Reviews What to Stream Television Book Reviews Music Celebrity Interviews TOP STORIES This summer at the movies, superheroes, from ‘Superman’ to ‘Fantastic Four,’ return Summer Movie Guide 2025: Here’s what’s coming to theaters and streaming from May to August After 'The Idol,' Abel Tesfaye's new movie 'Hurry Up Tomorrow' brought 'joy back into filmmaking' Newsletters AP Entertainment Wire Get AP's first personalized newsletter delivering you entertainment news twice a week. See All Newsletters Business Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology SECTIONS Tariffs Inflation Financial Markets Financial Wellness Technology TOP STORIES US consumer confidence plunges to lowest in 5 years on tariff worries 'Nowhere to turn': Small businesses dependent on imports from China are feeling more desperate US job openings fall to 7.2 million in March, the lowest level since September Science Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine SECTIONS Space Animals The Ancient World Climate Medicine TOP STORIES Amazon launches its first internet satellites to compete against SpaceX's Starlinks NASA's oldest astronaut felt the decades melt away in space before returning on his 70th birthday A carnivorous 'bone collector' caterpillar dresses in the remains of its prey Fact Check TOP STORIES FACT FOCUS: Trump credited with rising military recruitment. Growth started before his reelection FACT FOCUS: Examining RFK Jr.'s claims about measles, autism and diet as head of HHS FACT FOCUS: Trump exaggerates revenue from tariffs Oddities TOP STORIES Speedboat that flipped midair in 200 mph crash wins race on Arizona lake A man airlifted from Japan's Mount Fuji returns to the slope days later and is rescued again Bloody fingers are just part of the game in this traditional German sport Bloody fingers are just part of the game in this traditional German sport A bear is spotted in Connecticut playing on family's backyard slide Mark Allen compiles rare 147 break at snooker worlds and earns lucky fan $33,000 Be Well TOP STORIES St. Louis dyemaker is racing to help food companies switch to natural colors Worries about flying seem to be taking off. Here's how to cope with in-flight anxiety A 6-hour morning routine? First, try a few simple habits to start your day Community, mentors and skill-building: Experts weigh the role of employee resource groups In the rapidly shifting world of work, many employees are unclear what’s expected of them How setting boundaries can improve your health at work Newsletters Newsletters AP News Alerts Keep your pulse on the news with breaking news alerts from The AP. The Morning Wire Our flagship newsletter breaks down the biggest headlines of the day. Ground Game Exclusive insights and key stories from the world of politics. Beyond the Story Executive Editor Julie Pace brings you behind the scenes of the AP newsroom. The Afternoon Wire Get caught up on what you may have missed throughout the day. AP Entertainment Wire Get AP's first personalized newsletter delivering you entertainment news twice a week. See All Newsletters Photography 2024 YEAR END PHOTOS Photo Essays Photography SECTIONS 2024 YEAR END PHOTOS Photo Essays Photography TOP STORIES Photos of a power outage in Spain and Portugal knocks out ATMs, subways and traffic signals AP PHOTOS: Thousands of Buddhists participate in Lotus Lantern Festival in South Korea For nearly 60 days, Israel has blocked food from Gaza. Palestinians struggle to feed their families Newsletters The World in Pictures Get The AP’s most compelling photographs sent directly to your inbox. See All Newsletters AP Investigations Climate Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus SECTIONS Indigenous peoples and climate Climate Questions Climate Migration India Focus TOP STORIES Decision looming for Trump administration on first PFAS drinking water limits Brazilian justice orders government to seize lands with proven illegal deforestation Vineyards in NY wine country push sustainability as they adapt to climate change Health TOP STORIES FDA scrutiny of Novavax COVID-19 vaccine sparks uncertainty about other shots St. Louis dyemaker is racing to help food companies switch to natural colors Genetic medicine can leave people with rare mutations behind. But there's new hope Worries about flying seem to be taking off. Here's how to cope with in-flight anxiety Spring allergies are back. Here's how to check pollen levels and keep from sneezing Believers say microdosing psychedelics helps them. Scientists are trying to measure the claims Tech Artificial Intelligence Social Media SECTIONS Artificial Intelligence Social Media TOP STORIES Tech industry tried reducing AI's pervasive bias. Now Trump wants to end its 'woke AI' efforts Chinese singles are looking for love in video chats — with thousands following along in real time Power outages across Spain and Portugal affected millions. How to prepare for a major blackout Lifestyle Food & Recipes Gardening Homes Travel Fashion Pets SECTIONS Food & Recipes Gardening Homes Travel Fashion Pets TOP STORIES The secret to a refreshing cocktail or mocktail might be growing in the garden Danish king arrives in Greenland as Trump eyes strategic Arctic island Celebrate Cinco de Mayo with crisp-fried shrimp tacos Religion TOP STORIES Middle East latest: Israeli families appeal for return of loved ones' remains from Gaza Who is Cardinal Becciu? Why isn't he participating in the conclave to elect a pope? Clashes between Druze gunmen and pro-government fighters in Syrian capital kill at least 10 Newsletters World of Faith Comprehensive global coverage of how religion shapes our world. See All Newsletters Español TOP STORIES España y Portugal se centran en la causa del gran apagón con la electricidad casi restablecida Carney gana las elecciones en Canadá, mientras que el líder conservador pierde su escaño El desacreditado cardenal Becciu se retira del cónclave para elegir al papa Rusia anuncia alto el fuego de 72 horas en Ucrania para próxima semana para conmemorar derrota nazi Trump celebra sus primeros 100 días en el cargo con un mitin en Michigan Standards Quizzes Press Releases My Account The Associated Press is an independent global news organization dedicated to factual reporting. Founded in 1846, AP today remains the most trusted source of fast, accurate, unbiased news in all formats and the essential provider of the technology and services vital to the news business. More than half the world’s population sees AP journalism every day. twitter instagram facebook The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection More From AP News About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection More From AP News About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook SECTIONS About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook Copyright 2025 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. Sports Carlos Alcaraz wins Wimbledon by beating Novak Djokovic and now owns 4 Slam titles at age 21 Carlos Alcaraz wins Wimbledon by beating Novak Djokovic and now owns 4 Slam titles at age 21 1 of 24 | Carlos Alcaraz of Spain smiles as he holds up his trophy for the photographers after defeating Novak Djokovic of Serbia in the men’s singles final at the Wimbledon tennis championships in London, Sunday, July 14, 2024. (AP Photo/Mosa’ab Elshamy) Read More 2 of 24 | Carlos Alcaraz of Spain reacts after winning a point against Novak Djokovic of Serbia during the men’s singles final at the Wimbledon tennis championships in London, Sunday, July 14, 2024. (AP Photo/Alberto Pezzali) Read More 3 of 24 | Carlos Alcaraz speaks with Novak Djokovic after the men’s singles final at the Wimbledon tennis championships in, Sunday, July 14, 2024. (John Walton/PA via AP) Read More 4 of 24 | Carlos Alcaraz of Spain reacts after receiving his trophy from Kate, Princess of Wales after defeating Novak Djokovic of Serbia in the men’s singles final at the Wimbledon tennis championships in London, Sunday, July 14, 2024. (AP Photo/Alberto Pezzali) Read More 5 of 24 | Novak Djokovic of Serbia reacts during a break in his match against Carlos Alcaraz of Spain during the men’s singles final at the Wimbledon tennis championships in London, Sunday, July 14, 2024. (AP Photo/Alberto Pezzali) Read More 6 of 24 | Carlos Alcaraz of Spain celebrates after defeating Novak Djokovic of Serbia in the men’s singles final at the Wimbledon tennis championships in London, Sunday, July 14, 2024. (AP Photo/Alberto Pezzali) Read More 7 of 24 | Carlos Alcaraz, left, of Spain is congratulated by Novak Djokovic of Serbia after winning the men’s singles final at the Wimbledon tennis championships in London, Sunday, July 14, 2024. (AP Photo/Kirsty Wigglesworth) Read More 8 of 24 | Carlos Alcaraz of Spain celebrates after defeating Novak Djokovic of Serbia during the men’s singles final at the Wimbledon tennis championships in London, Sunday, July 14, 2024. (AP Photo/Kirsty Wigglesworth) Read More 9 of 24 | Novak Djokovic of Serbia reacts during his match against Carlos Alcaraz of Spain in the men’s singles final at the Wimbledon tennis championships in London, Sunday, July 14, 2024. (AP Photo/Kirsty Wigglesworth) Read More 10 of 24 | Carlos Alcaraz of Spain returns the ball to Novak Djokovic of Serbia during the men’s singles final at the Wimbledon tennis championships in, Sunday, July 14, 2024. (John Walton/PA via AP) Read More 11 of 24 | Novak Djokovic of Serbia reacts after losing a point against Carlos Alcaraz of Spain during the men’s singles finalat the Wimbledon tennis championships in London, Sunday, July 14, 2024. (AP Photo/Mosa’ab Elshamy) Read More 12 of 24 | Carlos Alcaraz of Spain plays a forehand return to Novak Djokovic of Serbia during the men’s singles final at the Wimbledon tennis championships in London, Sunday, July 14, 2024. (AP Photo/Alberto Pezzali) Read More 13 of 24 | Kate, Princess of Wales, center, and her daughter Princess Charlotte, left, watch the men’s singles final between Carlos Alcaraz of Spain and Novak Djokovic of Serbia, from the Royal Box at the Wimbledon tennis championships in London, Sunday, July 14, 2024. (AP Photo/Mosa’ab Elshamy) Read More 14 of 24 | Carlos Alcaraz of Spain plays a forehand return to Novak Djokovic of Serbia during the men’s singles final at the Wimbledon tennis championships in London, Sunday, July 14, 2024. (AP Photo/Kirsty Wigglesworth) Read More 15 of 24 | Novak Djokovic of Serbia plays a forehand return to Carlos Alcaraz of Spain during the men’s singles final at the Wimbledon tennis championships in London, Sunday, July 14, 2024. (AP Photo/Kirsty Wigglesworth) Read More 16 of 24 | Carlos Alcaraz of Spain, left, plays a return to Novak Djokovic of Serbia during the men’s singles final at the Wimbledon tennis championships in London, Sunday, July 14, 2024. (AP Photo/Mosa’ab Elshamy) Read More 17 of 24 | Novak Djokovic of Serbia plays a forehand return to Carlos Alcaraz of Spain during the men’s singles final at the Wimbledon tennis championships in London, Sunday, July 14, 2024. (AP Photo/Mosa’ab Elshamy) Read More 18 of 24 | Novak Djokovic of Serbia plays a backhand return to Carlos Alcaraz of Spain during the men’s singles final at the Wimbledon tennis championships in London, Sunday, July 14, 2024. (AP Photo/Kirsty Wigglesworth) Read More 19 of 24 | Carlos Alcaraz of Spain plays a backhand return to Novak Djokovic of Serbia during the men’s singles final at the Wimbledon tennis championships in London, Sunday, July 14, 2024. (AP Photo/Mosa’ab Elshamy) Read More 20 of 24 | Carlos Alcaraz of Spain holds his trophy after defeating Novak Djokovic of Serbia in the men’s singles final at the Wimbledon tennis championships in London, Sunday, July 14, 2024. (AP Photo/Kirsty Wigglesworth) Read More 21 of 24 | Carlos Alcaraz, left, of Spain holds his trophy after defeating Novak Djokovic, right, of Serbia in the men’s singles final at the Wimbledon tennis championships in London, Sunday, July 14, 2024.(AP Photo/Kirsty Wigglesworth) Read More 22 of 24 | Carlos Alcaraz of Spain celebrates with his team after defeating Novak Djokovic of Serbia in the men’s singles final at the Wimbledon tennis championships in London, Sunday, July 14, 2024. (AP Photo/Kirsty Wigglesworth) Read More 23 of 24 | Novak Djokovic of Serbia receives his trophy from Kate, Princess of Wales following his loss to Carlos Alcaraz of Spain in the men’s singles final at the Wimbledon tennis championships in London, Sunday, July 14, 2024. (AP Photo/Alberto Pezzali) Read More 24 of 24 | Carlos Alcaraz of Spain meets Princess Charlotte with Kate, Princess of Wales following his win in the men’s singles final over Novak Djokovic at the Wimbledon tennis championships in London, Sunday, July 14, 2024. (Andrew Parsons/AELTC/Pool Photo via AP) Read More By HOWARD FENDRICH Share Share Facebook Copy Link copied Print Email X LinkedIn Bluesky Flipboard Pinterest Reddit LONDON (AP) — Carlos Alcaraz was ready from the get-go this time. A year ago in the Wimbledon final against Novak Djokovic, Alcaraz got off to a slow start, dropped the opening set and needed five to claim his first championship at the All England Club . Sunday’s rematch began with a game that felt monumental: 20 points across nearly 15 minutes, portending an engrossing, back-and forth contest — and a long one. There were moments of brilliance from both men. Alcaraz, though, was better. Just as he would be for nearly all of the next two hours. Alcaraz learned from 2023 and applied those lessons to 2024, adding up to a 6-2, 6-2, 7-6 (4) victory over Djokovic for a second consecutive Wimbledon championship and fourth Grand Slam title in all. And to think: He is still just 21 . “At the end of my career, I want to sit at the same table as the big guys,” said Alcaraz, who won the French Open last month and, after receiving Wimbledon’s gold trophy from Kate, the Princes of Wales , is now just the sixth man to triumph on the red clay at Roland Garros and the grass at the All England Club in the same season. “That’s my main goal. That’s my dream right now.” Alcaraz improved to 4-0 in major finals, including at the 2022 U.S. Open; only Roger Federer got off to a better start to a career among men, going 7-0. Related Stories Grand Slam doubles champion Max Purcell accepts an 18-month doping ban Power restored at Madrid Open as tennis tournament resumes with packed schedule. Swiatek wins. Tennis players in the dark at Madrid Open as matches suspended due to major power outage “He just was better than me in every aspect of the game,” said the 37-year-old Djokovic , who had knee surgery less than 1 1/2 months ago yet was hoping to tie Federer’s men’s record of eight Wimbledon titles and become the first player in tennis history to win 25 Grand Slam tournaments. “In movement, in the way he was just striking the ball beautifully, serving great. Everything.” For Alcaraz, there was one brief blip, a five-point stretch that took him from the verge of victory to close to a collapse. It happened when he was a point from the championship while serving at 5-4, 40-love. But he double-faulted. Then missed a backhand. Then a volley. Then a forehand. And another forehand. Suddenly, it was 5-all. Suddenly, Alcaraz appeared rattled. Suddenly, Djokovic could hope . Suddenly, there was intrigue. But only briefly. Alcaraz regrouped, got to the tiebreaker, then closed things out. Last year, Djokovic recalled, “We went toe to toe.” “This year,” he continued, “it was nothing like that. It was all about him. He was the dominant force on the court and deserved to win.” Carlos Alcaraz of Spain plays a backhand return to Novak Djokovic of Serbia during the men’s singles final at the Wimbledon tennis championships in London, Sunday, July 14, 2024. (AP Photo/Mosa’ab Elshamy) Wearing a gray sleeve on his knee, Djokovic was hardly at his best on a cloudy afternoon at Centre Court — and there’s no doubt Alcaraz was a big part of the problem. The very first game, it turned out, was the most competitive portion of the proceedings until the third set. Not to say there weren’t hints of excitement the rest of the way. It’s more that the outcome never really seemed in dispute. “The first game was incredible. One of the longest first games I’ve ever played,” Djokovic said. “That set the tone. He was coming out from the blocks ready to battle and ready to play his best level right away, which wasn’t the case last year.” Novak Djokovic of Serbia plays a backhand return to Carlos Alcaraz of Spain during the men’s singles final at the Wimbledon tennis championships in London, Sunday, July 14, 2024. (AP Photo/Kirsty Wigglesworth) Djokovic double-faulted to hand over a 5-1 lead in the first set. He put a volley into the net to fall behind by a break to begin the second, then double-faulted to end that one. Finally, in the third, Djokovic perked up a bit, registering his only break of serve all day, as spectators chanted his two-syllable nickname — “No-le! No-le!” — while others replied with choruses of “Let’s go, Carlos! Let’s go!” Still, this was not the body-contorting, get-to-everything Djokovic everyone is accustomed to seeing, which makes sense considering there were serious questions about whether it would be possible to even participate at Wimbledon. Against Alcaraz, Djokovic occasionally hopped awkwardly when he landed after serving or stepped gingerly — as if barefoot on a beach’s hot sand — between points. Missing volleys he usually makes, Djokovic won just 27 of 53 points when he went to the net. After netting a volley to close one early 11-stroke exchange, Djokovic sighed and walked to his sideline seat to grab a purple-and-green towel for dabbing at sweat. His facial expression was saying: “Come on, Carlitos, pick on someone your own age.” Alcaraz was outstanding in pretty much every way, from the basic to the sorts of shots no one else would even try. Once, he leaped and wrapped his racket all the way around his back to get the ball over the net, although Djokovic did put an overhead away to get that point. Alcaraz ran wide of the doubles alley for forehand winners. Claimed points via drop shots. Smacked serves at up to 136 mph (219 kph). Accumulated 14 break points, converting five, and faced just three. What can’t Alcaraz do? Carlos Alcaraz, left, of Spain is congratulated by Novak Djokovic of Serbia after winning the men’s singles final at the Wimbledon tennis championships in London, Sunday, July 14, 2024. (AP Photo/Kirsty Wigglesworth) Two days before the final, Djokovic paid Alcaraz quite a compliment, saying: “I see a lot of similarities between me and him.” So true. And remember: Alcaraz is just getting started. “I want,” Alcaraz said, “to keep going.” ___ AP tennis: https://apnews.com/hub/tennis HOWARD FENDRICH Fendrich is an Associated Press national writer based in Washington, D.C. He reports on tennis and other sports. twitter mailto Most read Trump says Columbus Day will now just be Columbus Day Carney wins Canadian election, while Conservative leader loses his seat in Parliament Massive power outage in Spain and Portugal leaves thousands stranded and millions without light The Associated Press is an independent global news organization dedicated to factual reporting. Founded in 1846, AP today remains the most trusted source of fast, accurate, unbiased news in all formats and the essential provider of the technology and services vital to the news business. More than half the world’s population sees AP journalism every day. The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection More From AP News About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook The Associated Press ap.org Careers Advertise with us Contact Us Accessibility Statement Terms of Use Privacy Policy Cookie Settings Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information CA Notice of Collection More From AP News About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook SECTIONS About AP News Values and Principles AP’s Role in Elections AP Leads AP Definitive Source Blog AP Images Spotlight Blog AP Stylebook Copyright 2025 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. twitter instagram facebook