Ubisoft comes crawlin' back to Steam | PC Gamer Skip to main content Open menu Close menu PC Gamer PC Gamer THE GLOBAL AUTHORITY ON PC GAMES Search Search PC Gamer Sign in View Profile Sign out Subscribe US Edition UK US Canada Australia Games Hardware News Reviews Guides Video Forum More PC Gaming Show Software Movies & TV Coupons Magazine Newsletter Community guidelines Affiliate links Meet the team About PC Gamer PC Gamer Magazine Subscription Why subscribe? Subscribe to the world's #1 PC gaming mag Try a single issue or save on a subscription Issues delivered straight to your door or device From $32.49 View Popular Oblivion Remastered Marathon Baldur's Gate 3 Schedule 1 Marvel Rivals Gaming Industry Ubisoft comes crawlin' back to Steam News By Andy Chalk published 25 September 2024 After years of running exclusively with Epic, Ubisoft has had enough. When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works . (Image credit: Valve software) Ubisoft 's dalliance with the Epic Games Store is over. After several years of releasing its new games on Epic's storefront—and not Valve's—the company says it will resume putting new releases on Steam, beginning with Assassin's Creed Shadows in 2025. Ubisoft said in today's Assassin's Creed Shadows delay announcement that it will be available on Steam when it arrives on February 14, 2025; further, it added, "The game will mark the return of our new releases on Steam Day 1." Ubisoft CEO Yves Guillemot said the same thing in a subsequent trading update call with analysts. A Ubisoft representative later confirmed with PC Gamer that the company does indeed intend to bring all future new releases to Steam on launch day, simultaneously with other online storefronts. You may like Ubisoft's grudging crawlback to Steam continues with achievements for Watch Dogs 2 added a mere 9 years after release Assassin's Creed Shadows is a hit and Steam played a 'significant role' in that: 27% of activations were on PC and it's the 2nd-biggest AC launch of all time 13 years on, Ubisoft adds Steam achievements to the one mainline Assassin's Creed game you can't actually buy, but not the updated version you can It's quite a turnaround for Ubisoft, which released The Division 2 as an Epic Games Store exclusive in 2019 and was happy enough with the results that it extended the partnership between the two almost immediately thereafter. In August that same year, Ubisoft senior vice president for partnerships and revenue Chris Early criticized Steam's business model, and more specifically the 30% cut of all sales it takes, as " unrealistic ." Epic, by comparison, takes just 12%. But cracks in the exclusivity wall began to appear in late 2022, with the discovery of backend data indicating that some Ubisoft games were headed back to Steam . Just a few days later, Assassin's Creed Valhalla made the move, two years after its original release; four more , including Far Cry 6 and Rainbow Six Extraction,  were announced to follow in April 2023. Those games had already been released on other storefronts prior to their Steam launches, though, and new games continued to avoid Steam—including, until today, Assassin's Creed Shadows, which was slated only for Epic and the Ubisoft Store. But Ubisoft has been struggling in recent years , most recently (and notably) with Star Wars Outlaws, which Ubisoft confirmed today had " softer than expected " sales. That helped prompt Ubisoft to slam the release-it-on-Steam button earlier than it has in the past—Outlaws is set to arrive on Steam on November 21—and no doubt pushed the broader return to Steam in 2025 too. Making a great game is obviously a big part of making a hit game (and Ubisoft really needs a big hit right now), but if you're not selling where people are buying, you're going to suffer for it. Despite the best efforts of major publishers including Activision , Electronic Arts, Rockstar, Bethesda, and others, not to mention the far better deal offered to developers by Epic, Steam is more dominant than ever —and in the end, they all came crawlin' back . The biggest gaming news, reviews and hardware deals Keep up to date with the most important stories and the best deals, as picked by the PC Gamer team. Contact me with news and offers from other Future brands Receive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsors By submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over. TOPICS Ubisoft Valve Andy Chalk Social Links Navigation US News Lead Andy has been gaming on PCs from the very beginning, starting as a youngster with text adventures and primitive action games on a cassette-based TRS80. From there he graduated to the glory days of Sierra Online adventures and Microprose sims, ran a local BBS, learned how to build PCs, and developed a longstanding love of RPGs, immersive sims, and shooters. He began writing videogame news in 2007 for The Escapist and somehow managed to avoid getting fired until 2014, when he joined the storied ranks of PC Gamer. He covers all aspects of the industry, from new game announcements and patch notes to legal disputes, Twitch beefs, esports, and Henry Cavill. Lots of Henry Cavill. Read more Ubisoft's grudging crawlback to Steam continues with achievements for Watch Dogs 2 added a mere 9 years after release Assassin's Creed Shadows is a hit and Steam played a 'significant role' in that: 27% of activations were on PC and it's the 2nd-biggest AC launch of all time 13 years on, Ubisoft adds Steam achievements to the one mainline Assassin's Creed game you can't actually buy, but not the updated version you can Ubisoft backflips, says Assassin's Creed Shadows will support Steam Deck at launch, but I doubt I'll actually want to play it there Ubisoft says don't compare Assassin's Creed Shadows' success to Valhalla: The latter launched in Covid's 'perfect storm' and feedback on platforms 'less affected by review bombing' is stellar Ubisoft and Tencent are forming a new company that will take control of its most successful franchises: Assassin's Creed, Far Cry, and Rainbow Six Latest in Gaming Industry Trump-appointed lawyer threatens to revoke Wikipedia's non-profit status, putting the online encyclopedia in jeopardy All System Dance developer announces layoffs 'due to financial challenges' Here's how to watch FGS Live at Gamescom LATAM this May 2 PC Gamer magazine's new issue is on sale now: Vampire: The Masquerade – Bloodlines 2 RPG Tenderfoot Tactics removed from Xbox Store in solidarity with pro-Palestine boycott: 'We call on others in our community to do whatever they can to fight this historic injustice' Devolver's financials show Cult of the Lamb is its best seller, earning more than $90 million with DLC a significant factor: 'Gamers are spending more time on known IPs' Latest in News Fortnite's rarest collaboration has returned to the store after a 1,794 day absence Lethal Company dev is currently sitting on an update, but might 'give it a couple of weeks and add a creature or two' instead Infinity Nikki's Steam launch has been branded with 'mixed' reviews after players are struggling to even launch the game 'We are profoundly thankful for your lasting devotion': Elden Ring celebrates 30 million copies sold just a month before Elden Ring Nightreign Nvidia has just released yet another GPU driver hotfix to add further fixes to the other hotfix driver it released last week. And it still hasn't really fixed things AMD and Samsung demo 8K 120 Hz gaming and I am really, really struggling to care HARDWARE BUYING GUIDES LATEST GAME REVIEWS 1 Best Steam Deck accessories in Australia for 2025: Our favorite docks, powerbanks and gamepads 2 Best graphics card for laptops in 2025: the mobile GPUs I'd want in my next gaming laptop 3 Best mini PCs in 2025: The compact computers I love the most 4 Best 14-inch gaming laptop in 2025: The top compact gaming laptops I've held in these hands 5 Best Mini-ITX motherboards in 2025: My pick from all the mini mobo marvels I've tested 1 Be Quiet! Light Mount mechanical keyboard review 2 Be Quiet! Dark Mount modular mechanical keyboard review 3 Skin Deep review 4 Crucial P310 1 TB (2280) review 5 WD Black SN7100 1 TB review PC Gamer is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site . About Us Contact Future's experts Terms and conditions Privacy policy Cookies policy Advertise with us Accessibility Statement Careers © Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street, New York, NY 10036. Close Please login or signup to comment Please wait... Login Sign Up