Malika Andrews Selected As ESPN NBA Draft Broadcast Reporter Subscribe To Newsletters Trump Tracker Billionaires Billionaires View All Billionaires World's Billionaires Forbes 400 America's Richest Self-Made Women China's Richest India's Richest Indonesia's Richest Korea's Richest Thailand's Richest Japan's Richest Australia's Richest Taiwan's Richest Singapore's Richest Philippines' Richest Hong Kong's Richest Malaysia's Richest Money & Politics 2024 Election Innovation Innovation View All Innovation AI Big Data Cloud Cloud 100 Consumer Tech Creator Economy Cybersecurity Digital Transformation Enterprise Commerce Enterprise Security and Protection Enterprise Tech Enterprise Growth Strategy Future Of Work Gaming Healthcare Innovation Rules Retail Industry SAP BrandVoice | Paid Program Science Social Media Sustainability & Climate Transportation Venture Capital Technology VMware BrandVoice | Paid Program TikTok BrandVoice | Paid Program Leadership Leadership View All Leadership C-Suite CEO Network CFO Network CHRO Network CIO Network CMO Network Leadership Strategies Careers Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Education Forbes EQ | Paid Program ForbesBLK ForbesWomen Under 30 Working Remote Over 50 Deloitte BrandVoice | Paid Program Dell Technologies BrandVoice | Paid Program SAP BrandVoice | Paid Program Money Money View All Money Banking & Insurance ETFs & Mutual Funds Fintech Hedge Funds & Private Equity Investing Investor Hub Markets Personal Finance Retirement Taxes Top Advisor | SHOOK Wealth Management Forbes Digital Assets Forbes Digital Assets Home Web3 Community News Crypto Prices NFT Prices Research Learn Crypto Basics BTC DeFi Web3 Education NFTs Crypto Investments Events Crypto Portfolios Business Business View All Business Aerospace & Defense Energy Food & Drink Hollywood & Entertainment Law Manufacturing Media Policy Retail SportsMoney Entertainment Digest Small Business Small Business View All Small Business Entrepreneurs Franchises Small Business Strategy Lifestyle Lifestyle View All Lifestyle Arts Boats & Planes Cars & Bikes Dining ForbesLife Forbes Travel Guide Spirits Style & Beauty Travel Vices Watches Real Estate Real Estate View All Real Estate Commercial Real Estate Forbes Global Properties Residential Real Estate Forbes Vetted Forbes Vetted View All Forbes Vetted Mattress & Sleep Bed Frames Mattresses Mattress Toppers Pillows Sheets & Bedding Sleep Products Home Bathroom Cleaning & Laundry Decor Furniture Heating & Cooling Hobbies Home Office Kitchen & Dining Outdoor Pets Storage & Organization Tools Wine & Bar Fashion Accessories Clothing Eyewear Footwear Jewelry Handbags & Purses Lingerie & Sleepwear Outdoor & Fitness Apparel Outerwear Watches Kids & Baby Gear Baby Gear Kids Clothes & Accessories Nursery Pregnancy & Postpartum Toys & Books Gear Apparel & Accessories Bikes Camping & Hiking Climbing Fishing & Hunting Fitness Golf Running Tennis & Racket Sports Tools & Tech Training & Recovery Water Sports Wellness Winter Sports Beauty & Grooming Haircare Makeup Nailcare Shaving Skincare Personal Products Wellness & Self Care Tech & Electronics Audio Cameras Computers, Tablets & Accessories Gaming Home Office Online Tools Smart Home Devices Smartphones, Smartwatches & Accessories Streaming TVs Travel Cruises Hotels & Lodging Luggage Travel Products Gifts Father's Day Holiday Mother's Day Valentine's Day Wedding Deals Black Friday Cyber Monday Amazon Prime Day Beauty & Grooming Big Sales Fashion Gear Home Tech & Electronics Travel Deals Mattress & Sleep Forbes 101 Advisor Advisor Best Credit Cards Of 2025 Compare Credit Cards Balance Transfer Credit Cards Cash Back Credit Cards Travel Credit Cards Business Credit Cards Mortgages & Loans Best Mortgage Lenders Today's Mortgage Rates Today's Refinance Rates Best Personal Loans Loans For Bad Credit Best Debt Consolidation Loans Best Student Loan Lenders Best Student Loan Refinance Lenders Business Loans Banking Best Online Banks CD Rates High-Yield Savings Accounts Money Market Account Life Insurance Cheap Life Insurance No Exam Life Insurance Travel Insurance Covid-19 Travel Insurance Cheap Travel Insurance Companies Best Car Insurance Compare Car Insurance Quotes Cost Of Car Insurance Cheap Car Insurance Pet Insurance How Much Is Pet Insurance? Cheap Pet Insurance Business Services Best LLC Services Best Registered Agent Services How To Set Up An LLC How To Start A Business Cost To Start An LLC Best Payroll Services Best HR Software Best HRIS Systems Best PEO Services Best Applicant Tracking Systems Best Website Builders Best Web Hosting Services Best Domain Registrar Best Ecommerce Platform Best Landing Page Builder Best VoIP Service What Is VoIP? Best Answering Services Best Call Center Software Best Cloud Phone System Best Project Management Software Free Project Management Software Best Task Management Software Free Task Management Software Best Gantt Chart Software Best VPN Best Free VPN Best Cheap VPN Best Antivirus Software Best Password Managers Home Services Best Moving Companies Best Long Distance Moving Companies Best Car Shipping Companies Best Interstate Moving Companies How Much Do Movers Cost? Best Home Warranty Companies Cheapest Home Warranty Companies Are Home Warranties Worth It? Home Warranty Cost Best Home Appliance Insurance Best Solar Companies Best Solar Panels Cost Of Solar Panels Solar Tax Credit By State Are Solar Panels Worth It? Best Pest Control Companies Best Termite Control Companies Best Mosquito Control Companies Pest Control Cost How Much Do Exterminators Cost? Best Home Security Companies Best Home Security Systems Home Security System Cost Cheapest Home Security Systems Best Wireless Home Security Systems Best Internet Providers Cheapest Internet Plans Fastest High Speed Internet Providers Best Internet Only Plans Best Fiber Internet Providers Forbes Advisor UK Health Health Healthy Aging Best Medical Alert Systems Medicare Medicare Advantage Plans Medicare Supplement Plans Medicare Advantage By State Health Insurance Hearing Aids Best Hearing Aids Senior Living Mind Best Online Therapy Best CBD Gummies Best CBD Oil Best Protein Powders Lists Video Newsletters Newsletters Crypto Confidential Editorial Newsletters Forbes Games Forbes Games View All Forbes Games Frase by Forbes Pinpoint by LinkedIn Queens by LinkedIn Crossclimb by LinkedIn Forbes Magazine Forbes Magazine Forbes Asia Free Issue of Forbes Latest Latest Coronavirus Coverage Daily Cover Stories Dark Capital Editors' Picks Breaking News Featured Featured 2025 Best-In-State Wealth Advisors List 2025 America's Top Women Wealth Advisors AI’s Nuanced Impact And A Quest To Quantify It DNA of Success Embracing And Bracing For AI Facing A Volatile Market, C-Suites Look To The CFO For Strategic Guidance Forbes Research: 2023 Small Business Survey Hyoeun Kim On LG's Brand Promise, "Life's Good" | Paid Program Your Four-Part Blueprint To Unlock AI Value In 2025 | Paid Program Diners Club International Celebrates 75 Years | Paid Program Leadership Lessons: Small Business Playbook Potential Has No Age Summit | Paid Program Celebrating The Power Of Partnership: Why Teamwork Is Key In the Fight Against Cancer | Paid Program Protecting What Matters Most: How Gerber Life Insurance Offers Affordable Coverage For Your Whole Family | Paid Program Presented by EY - Beyond The Blueprint: How These Four CEOs Built Billion-Dollar Businesses | Paid Program 2/3 By 2030: Philip Morris International Marks A Milestone  And Aims For A Smoke-Free Future | Paid Program 2025 America's Top Wealth Advisors Forbes Insights: Your Guide To Marketing In The Era Of AI | Paid Program The Undergrad's New Journey To Real-World Ready | Paid Program Forbes Insights: Your Five-Step Strategy To Unleash AI’s Value In Marketing | Paid Program Forbes Video Series: AI 50 AI 50 List By The Numbers: Meet The Forbes 30 Under 30 Europe Class Of 2025 United To End Blood Cancer: Meet The Leaders Turning Passion Into Progress | Paid Program Advertise with Forbes Report a Security Issue Editorial Values and Standards Site Feedback Contact Us Careers at Forbes Tips Corrections Privacy Do Not Sell My Personal Information Terms AdChoices Reprints & Permissions © 2025 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. Subscribe To Newsletters Malika Andrews Selected As ESPN NBA Draft Broadcast Reporter By Shlomo Sprung Share Save BETA This is a BETA experience. opt-out here Business SportsMoney Malika Andrews Selected As ESPN NBA Draft Broadcast Reporter By Shlomo Sprung , Former Contributor. Forbes contributors publish independent expert analyses and insights. I'm a senior contributor covering the NBA, MLB, NFL, NHL, soccer, esports and more. Nov 12, 2020, 08:00am EST Share Save This article is more than 4 years old. After starring in her on-air reporting role at the NBA bubble, Malika Andrews will be the broadcast ... More reporter for next week's draft on ESPN. Melissa Rawlins / ESPN Images Melissa Rawlins / ESPN Images After her breakout performance for ESPN as an on-air game and sideline reporter at the NBA’s bubble in Orlando over the summer and early fall, the network has selected Malika Andrews to be the broadcast reporter for the November 18 draft, which will be held at ESPN’s headquarters in Bristol, Conn. Rece Davis will host on ESPN’s main set with analysts Jay Bilas, Jay Williams and Mike Schmitz, with insiders Adrian Wojnarowski and Bobby Marks in studio as well. Andrews will be in a separate Bristol studio remotely interviewing the prospects as they’re being drafted, and NBA commissioner Adam Silver and deputy commissioner Mark Tatum will likely be in yet another separate studio announcing the picks. Cassidy Hubbarth will be hosting a predraft edition of Hoop Streams, and Marc Kestecher, Doris Burke, P.J. Carlesimo and LaPhonso Ellis will broadcast the draft on ESPN Radio. Andrews, 25, will head up to Connecticut next week to prepare for a broadcast that the NBA and ESPN hope will go as smoothly as the NFL’s remote draft conducted in April. “I think this is sort of an extension in some ways of my bubble assignment because I’m on the pandemic fallout basketball beat, if you will,” Andrews said over the phone. “This is the next iteration of pandemic basketball, the pandemic draft. And that has to be done a little differently. I’m excited. I'm excited that [ESPN senior deputy editor] Cristina Daglas and [ESPN VP of production] Mike Shiffman decided that I was someone they thought could do this well.” Andrews stands on the court in the Orlando bubble before an August game between the Toronto Raptors ... More and Philadelphia 76ers. Photo by Ashley Landis-Pool/Getty Images Getty Images Reporting for one night on the NBA Draft will be infinitely easier than Andrews’ assignment to head down to the Orlando bubble for what ended up being four months. “It was an experience unlike anything else I’ve ever done in my career,” she said. MORE FOR YOU Google’s Update Decision—Bad News For 50% Of Android Users Microsoft Confirms Upgrade Choice—240 Million Windows Users Must Now Decide NYT ‘Strands’ Today: Hints, Spangram And Answers For Wednesday, April 30th The first thing Andrews had to do was set aside her anxiety about the worst case scenario at the bubble, which was a coronavirus outbreak that would get her and so many others sick. That was harder to overcome than she wanted people to know, she said. And with not many on-air talents down in Orlando, a lot of roles were compounded, forcing Andrews to wear many hats during an unprecedented time for everyone involved. “I was taking on more things than I ever had, not just at ESPN but ever,” the Oakland native said. “I really didn’t want to let the people who trusted me to do those things down, and I didn’t want to let myself down. I didn’t want to let our viewers and our readers and our listeners down, either. That was something that I tried not to think about every day, because I think if you think about that, that’s a recipe to fail.” She said she was nervous every time she took on something new, a cycle which repeated itself every time she was feeling a little bit comfortable with the added responsibility she just learned to grapple with. “I’m lucky to be at a place that trusts me enough to do that,” Andrews said, “but sometimes they trusted me more than I trusted myself. That was challenging.” It was a challenge she did well enough at to be rewarded with yet another challenge from ESPN brass. Andrews has watched these top draft prospects play, but getting to know exactly who they are and what their ambitions are takes another level of preparation she’s had to adjust to. “The role of the reporter isn’t just to know what they’re like on the court,” she said. “It’s to ask and capture their emotions in the minutes after a dream that they’ve been working on for years has come true.” Andrews will have to conduct remote interviews with top NBA Draft prospects on ESPN just like the ... More NFL Draft on April 23, when quarterback Joe Burrow went first overall to the Cincinnati Bengals. Photo by Getty Images/Getty Images Getty Images So in the days leading up to the big night, she’s trying to focus on tailoring the best questions to ask each individual player even though we don’t know what order the players are going to necessarily be drafted in. “How can I enhance people’s understanding of what they are feeling when they get to do this once-in-a-lifetime thing?” she asked. If there’s anything 2020 has taught Andrews and ESPN, it’s that she seems to be pretty good at taking on new roles and assignments that have been thrown her way. In a year of once-in-a-lifetime things for both the NBA and the human race, it will be Andrews, whose star is seemingly rising at the network, who gets to extend her run of bubble-like assignments as we get set to begin the 2020-2021 basketball calendar. Follow me on Twitter . Editorial Standards Forbes Accolades LOADING VIDEO PLAYER... FORBES’ FEATURED Video © 2025 Forbes Media LLC. All Rights Reserved. AdChoices Privacy Statement Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information Limit the Use of My Sensitive Personal Information Privacy Preferences Digital Terms of Sale Terms of Service Contact Us Send Us Feedback Report a Security Issue Jobs At Forbes Reprints & Permissions Forbes Press Room Advertise