God of War release date announced, special editions revealed, new trailer debuts – PlayStation.Blog Skip to content playstation.com PlayStation .Blog Menu PS5 PS VR2 PS4 PS Store PS Plus Select a region Current region: English French German Italian Japanese Korean Portuguese (Br) Russian Spanish (LatAm) Spanish (EU) Traditional Chinese Login Search Search PlayStation Blog Search PlayStation Blog Categories PlayStation 5 PlayStation VR2 PlayStation 4 PlayStation Store PlayStation Plus Login to Comment Select a region Current region: English French German Italian Japanese Korean Portuguese (Br) Russian Spanish (LatAm) Spanish (EU) Traditional Chinese January 23, 2018 God of War release date announced, special editions revealed, new trailer debuts 56 0 14 Like this Kratos returns to action on PS4 from 20th April 2018 – and pre-orders are now open Cory Barlog Sony Santa Monica Studios People of PlayStation the world over, God of War is launching on 20th April 2018. I would love to write a long blog post here but, apparently, I have a game to get done by 20/4 so I gotta get back to work as soon as possible. First, let me say that this is my favourite release day of my entire career. If I live to be 100, I do not think I will be able to top this release day. This has been a long journey just to reach this point so it is a little bittersweet to think that we are only a few months away from that journey finally coming to an end. While I am sad, I am also excited because it means everyone will get their hands on this crazy adventure we have been crafting for nearly five years! Speaking of trailers. Yeah, I just lost interest in finding an elegant way to get here from the last paragraph so I just went for it. That is just how I roll. I really am ecstatic that I can finally show you this beautiful trailer we have been cooking up in the creative kitchens of Santa Monica Studio headquarters. It will give you more insight on why Kratos and Atreus are going on their journey, as well as provide a glimpse at some new bits of action. I love this trailer. After I saw it, I pre-ordered the game. So, 20th April 2018… mark the date on your calendar. Clear that schedule, tell your significant other they are wonderful, because that is always a nice thing to do, and then wonder what you will do with all that free time you have now that you don’t need to keep asking me when the release date is. Thank you everyone for your continued support of our game making addiction. I will do my best to keep sharing information as we head towards launch. But wait, there’s more! I’m proud to share our limited Collector Editions and Digital Edition whose every component is connected back to the Norse universe and story of our game. Pre-order offer I should first mention, if you pre-order *any edition* (or already did) worldwide at a supporting retailer, you’ll acquire these three legendary shields skins (which you’ll need internet to access!) for Kratos to bash and defend against all manner of creatures we created in the brutal Norse wilds. If you pre-order any edition at selected retailers across Europe, you’ll also receive Luck of Ages XP Boost, which grants you +10 Luck and has 1 Enchantment Slot. Luck influences the following: Increase XP gain Increase Hacksilver gain Increase the ability to trigger Perks Collector’s Edition The 9” statue was crafted by our team in collaboration with the incredible folks at Gentle Giant. The cloth map is a unique companion to your journey, and an art piece on its own. The Huldra Bros carvings pack as much detail as their personas do in game. Just a few of the highlights, not to mention the digital items as well! Limited Edition Designed to look like it came straight from the forges of Midgard, the black and silver SteelBook is embossed with the Huldra Bros logo, and it comes with a physical copy of the art book by Dark Horse too. Of course, we’ve also included some cool in-game extras, like the Death’s Vow armour set, Exile’s Guardian Shield and a GoW PS4 theme. Digital Edition If digital-only is king for you, we didn’t forget. Adorn the legendary Death’s Vow Armor Set to increase your strength, and honour the solemn promise that sends Kratos and Atreus on their journey through the Norse wilds of Midgard and beyond. The digital comic book from Dark Horse, Issue #0 starts to unearth the story of Kratos before his quest with Atreus begins. Not to mention both the digital comic and mini art book will come with exclusive creator commentary tracks. Again, mark your calendars for God of War’s release on 20th April! If you’re not convinced yet, watch that trailer one more time or follow us on Facebook and Twitter for more development updates! god of war Did you like this? Like this Latest News Watch the Borderlands 4 gameplay deep dive State of Play on April 30 Revealing Cosmic Realm gameplay from Doom: The Dark Ages, out May 15 Ghost of Yōtei comes to PlayStation 5 on October 2 New PS5 System Software update features audio focus and the return of the classic console UI customizations Join the Conversation Add a Comment But don't be a jerk! Please be kind, considerate, and constructive. Report inappropriate comments to PlayStationBlogModeration@sony.com 56 Comments Loading More Comments Leave a Reply Cancel reply You must be logged in to post a comment. Trending Stories PlayStation Portal remote player system update releases today with Cloud Game Streaming Beta UX enhancements Shuzo Kikuchi VP of Product Management, Sony Interactive Entertainment Date published: April 9, 2025 79 431 PlayStation 5 Pro Teardown: An inside look at the most advanced PlayStation console to date Sachie Kobari PlayStation.Blog Japan Date published: April 21, 2025 24 344 RoboCop: Rogue City – Unfinished Business coming to PS5 July 17 Cryss Leonhart Lead Community Manager, Nacon Date published: April 24, 2025 11 91 Onimusha 2: Samurai’s Destiny remastered: Interview with director Motohide Eshiro Heidi Kemps (she/her) PlayStation Blog Contributor Date published: April 22, 2025 4 60 Welcome PlayStation 5 Pro, the most visually impressive way to play games on PlayStation Hideaki Nishino CEO, Platform Business Group, Sony Interactive Entertainment Date published: September 10, 2024 701 3,028 PlayStation Plus Game Catalog lineup for February: Horizon Forbidden West, The Quarry, Resident Evil 7 biohazard and more Adam Michel Director, Game Services – Content, Sony Interactive Entertainment Date published: February 15, 2023 198 960 Celebrating 30 years of PlayStation with a nostalgic look Hideaki Nishino CEO, Platform Business Group, Sony Interactive Entertainment Date published: September 19, 2024 414 3,862 New look for PS5 console this holiday season Sid Shuman (he/him) Senior Director, Sony Interactive Entertainment Content Communications Date published: October 10, 2023 389 2,065 Select a region Current region: English French German Italian Japanese Korean Portuguese (Br) Russian Spanish (LatAm) Spanish (EU) Traditional Chinese Back to top Sony Interactive Entertainment Website © 2025 Sony Interactive Entertainment. All content, game titles, trade names and/or trade dress, trademarks, artwork and associated imagery are trademarks and/or copyright material of their respective owners . All rights reserved. Comment Policy Support About SIE Terms of Use Privacy Policy Press Releases Careers Legal Contact Us Developers Modern Slavery Transparency Act Statement Do Not Share My Personal Information Sony PlayStation Logo Please enter your date of birth. Sorry, you may not access this content. Date of birth fields Year Month Day Enter Close